



Workplace strategy - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
Components and aims








2
Workplace consultants








3
Research








4
In Ireland








5
See also








6
References








7
External links


















Toggle the table of contents







Workplace strategy



1 language




বাংলা

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Pattern of a organization's work
Workplace Strategy is the dynamic alignment of an organization's work patterns with the work environment to enable peak performance and reduce costs.[1]


Components and aims[edit]
The role of the person charged with developing the strategy, the 'workplace strategist', is to understand the organisation's requirements and recommend a workplace solution that will help them meet their current and future needs. The workplace strategy may facilitate meeting business objectives such as: reducing property costs, improving business performance, merging two or more organisations/cultures, and relocating or consolidating occupied buildings. In more simple terms, the workplace strategy provides a response to either running out of space, having too much space, or wanting to introduce organisational change. The workplace strategy and its implementation quite often occur at an opportune moment such as a property lease break or a company merger or acquisition.
The proposed workplace strategy will focus on how to use the space more efficiently and effectively. Recommendations often include moving from cellular (predominantly private office) environments to open plan, or introducing new ways of working and moving to a flexible working environment, as first proposed by Frank Duffy in the nineties. At around the same time, Erik Veldhoen, a Dutch based consultant and workplace strategist 'avant la lettre', developed the so-called 'activity based design approach'. It was the first integrated design approach ever developed, combining insights from different disciplines including design, ICT, social organization and management. With this methodology he was able to realize the first 'activity-based' work environment for Interpolis, an insurance company, based in Tilburg (The Netherlands). An 'Activity Based' Work Environment is where the occupants have access to a range of work settings, including working at home or on the move, but also share workstations, often referred to as hot desking or the related Hoteling. Since 2001, the concept of coworking space has also provided options for the startups, freelancers and companies who prefer this plug-and-play solution with shorter lease terms commitment. 
The work environment assessment is an essential tool for identifying areas that require improvement and highlighting practices that are successful. Based on the results of the assessment, it is crucial to implement strategies that address the identified shortcomings and bolster successful practices. This paper will provide two approaches that can be used to address limitations and two strategies that can promote successful practices, both of which are supported by the literature.
Strategies to Address Shortcomings
Effective communication is essential for quality patient care and staff satisfaction. A study by Evans and Suklun (2017), showed that poor communication in nursing work environments is one of the leading causes of adverse patient outcomes. Therefore, it is essential to develop and implement communication strategies that foster a culture of transparency and openness. One of the strategies that can be implemented to enhance communication include regular team meetings, providing feedback, and involving staff in decision-making processes. These strategies can promote collaboration, trust, and respect among team members, resulting in improved job satisfaction and patient outcomes.
Another strategy to address shortcomings in the work environment is appreciating diversity. In the workplace, diversity refers to distinctions based on race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, and other cultural backgrounds. Embracing diversity creates an inclusive work environment that supports cultural competence, reduces discrimination, and improves the quality of care. According to Stanford (2020), implementing a diversity and inclusion program in the workplace improves nurses' job satisfaction, reduces discrimination, and promotes cultural competence. The initiative included educating nurses on diversity and inclusion, fostering an inclusive culture, and promoting diversity in leadership roles.
Strategies To Bolster Successful Practices
Decision-making is a critical aspect of nursing practice that requires competence and expertise. Competent decision-making can improve patient outcomes and promote a positive work environment. Therefore, implementing a strategy that enhances competence in decision-making can bolster successful practices identified in the work environment assessment. One strategy to enhance competence in decision-making is by implementing simulation-based education. Simulation-based education is an evidence-based practice that promotes experiential learning, which is crucial for enhancing competence in decision-making (Koukourikos et al., 2021). Simulation-based education can enhance critical thinking and decision-making, ultimately improving patient outcomes.
Another approach that can be performed to bolster successful practices in the work setting is to clarify expectations regarding clinical practices in order to improve autonomy. Autonomy refers to nurses' level of independence and control in their practice. Clarifying expectations about clinical practice ensures that nurses understand their roles, responsibilities, and scope of practice. This promotes autonomy, improves job satisfaction, and reduces burnout. Research by Evans & Suklun (2017) revealed that implementing a clinical practice guideline improved nurses' autonomy and reduced burnout. The guideline provided clear expectations about clinical practice, ensured consistency in care, and promoted reflective practice.

With the fourth industrial revolution, people have questioned the relevance of physical workspace and workplace strategy as team may work remotely outside an office space. The meaning and purpose of work spaces is changing to align with the organisation's growth strategy. Following the COVID-19 pandemic, workplace strategies have paid particular attention to hybrid workplace strategy and the challenge of having work-from-home staff return to the office.[2]
Easy to follow reviews of how to develop a workplace strategy are provided by Eley and Marmot[3] and Springer.[4]

Workplace consultants[edit]
Workplace strategies tend to be developed by specialist workplace consultants or the service may provided from within an architectural practice. Savage notes that:[1]  "The successful implementation of a workplace strategy requires an interdisciplinary team, internal and external to the organization ... A workplace consultant may be retained to engage the team, help define success criteria, manage the process, and assess results." 
External workplace consultants are professionals from a number of backgrounds: business management, interior design and architecture, building surveying, real estate and facilities management, human resources and building research.

Research[edit]
Research is currently underway by the General Services Administration[5] to test the impact of workplace strategies, design, and new technologies on business performance.
The evidence available to determine the effectiveness of health-promoting policies in workplaces such as healthy catering policies; point-of-purchase nutrition labeling; environmental supports for healthy eating and physical activity; control policies; weight management programmes are sparse and inconsistent. There is low certainty of evidence that the strategies make little or no benefits in employee's health behaviours. It is also uncertain whether such strategies are cost-effective.[6]

In Ireland[edit]
The National Centre for Partnership and Performance in Ireland has established a "National Workplace Strategy" defined as: 
"the Government's blueprint to help transform Ireland's workplaces into Workplaces of the Future, by promoting greater levels of partnership-led change and innovation in our places of work, regardless of size or sector. As Ireland continues its economic and social transition to a knowledge-based economy and society, the Strategy's underlying premise is that all companies and organisations can achieve improved performance and an enhanced Quality of working life by improving their capacity to manage change and innovation within the workplace."
The nursing work environment promotes quality patient care and staff satisfaction. Addressing shortcomings and bolstering successful practices in the work environment assessment is crucial in nursing. By ensuring proper communication, appreciating diversity, enhancing competence in decision-making processes, and clarifying expectations about clinical practice, nurses can work in an environment that promotes job satisfaction, innovation, and quality patient care.


See also[edit]
Booster breaks in the workplace
References[edit]


^ a b Savage A E (2005) Workplace strategy: What it is and why you should care. Journal of Corporate Real Estate, 7(3).

^ Amicus - Workplace Strategy - The Post Pandemic Workplace.[1]

^ Eley J & Marmot A (1995) Understanding Offices: What Every Manager Needs to Know About Office Buildings. London: Penguin.

^ Springer T (2011) Fundamentals of Workplace Strategy. Jasper, IN: Kimball Office.[2]

^ Kampschroer K, Heerwagen J & Powell K (2007) Creating and Testing Workplace Strategy. California Management Review, 49(2)."Creating and Testing Workplace Strategy".

^ Wolfenden L, Goldman S, Stacey SG, Grady A, Kingsland M, Williams CM, Wiggers J, et al. (14 November 2018). "Strategies to Improve the Implementation of Workplace-Based Policies or Practices Targeting Tobacco, Alcohol, Diet, Physical Activity and Obesity". Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 11 (11): CD012439. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD012439.pub2. PMC 6362433. PMID 30480770.


External links[edit]
vteAspects of workplacesTopics
Absenteeism
Abusive supervision
Aggression
Anti-pattern
Artificial intelligence
Bullying
Climate
Culture
Computer surveillance
Conflict
Control freak
Counterproductive behaviour
Coworking
Culture of fear
Democracy
Deviance
Discrimination
Diversity
Divide and rule
Drug tests
Effects of overtime
Emotional labor
Emotions
Employee assistance
Employee engagement
Employee experience
Employee monitoring
Employee morale
Employee recognition
Employee silence
Employee surveys
Empowerment
Evaluation
Feminisation
Generations
Goofing off
Gossip
Happiness
Harassment
Health promotion
Health surveillance
Hostile work environment
Humor
Incivility
Inequality
Intervention
Jargon
Kick the cat
Kiss up kick down
Listening
Machiavellianism
Menopause
Micromanagement
Mobbing
Narcissism
Office politics
Overwork
Parkinson's law
Performance appraisal
Personality clash
Phobia
Positive psychology
Privacy
Probation
Profanity
Psychopathy
Quality of working life
Queen bee syndrome
Rat race
Relationships
Revenge
Robotics safety
Role conflict
Sabotage
Spirituality
Strategy
Stress
Toxic workplace
Toxic leader
Training
Turnover
Undermining
Violence
Virtual
Wellness
Work–family conflict
Workload
Workplace harassment
Workwear
See also
Corporation
Employment
Factory
Headquarters
Job
Job sharing
Labour movement
Labor rights
Office
Organization
Remote work
Strike action
Trade union
Whistleblower
 Templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Employment





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Workplace_strategy&oldid=1286965176"
Categories: Business analysisStrategic managementWorkplaceHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches Wikidata






 This page was last edited on 23 April 2025, at 03:42 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Workplace strategy




























1 language


Add topic
















