



Organizational culture - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
Definition








2
History








3
Analysis




Toggle Analysis subsection





3.1
Insularity








3.2
Strength








3.3
Risks








3.4
Cultural








3.5
Groupthink






3.5.1
Five Monkeys Experiment










3.6
Rigidity








3.7
Bullying








3.8
COVID-19 impact










4
Indicators








5
Role of communication








6
Intended effects








7
Culture change




Toggle Culture change subsection





7.1
Stages








7.2
Obstacles








7.3
Methods










8
Research and models, cultural dimensions




Toggle Research and models, cultural dimensions subsection





8.1
Hofstede's National Culture Dimensions








8.2
Daniel Denison








8.3
Deal and Kennedy








8.4
Artifacts, values, and tacit assumptions








8.5
External adaptation and internal integration








8.6
Organizational structure, organizational culture








8.7
Cultural web








8.8
Schemata








8.9
Reciprocity








8.10
Entrepreneurial








8.11
Variable, process








8.12
Organizational communication








8.13
Other








8.14
Instruments






8.14.1
Organizational Cultural Profile








8.14.2
Organizational Culture Assessment Instrument








8.14.3
Organizational Culture Inventory












9
Critical views




Toggle Critical views subsection





9.1
Legal liability








9.2
Subcultures








9.3
Shadow side










10
See also








11
References








12
Notes








13
Further reading








14
External links


















Toggle the table of contents







Organizational culture



34 languages




العربيةБългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenščinaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยУкраїнськаئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt粵語中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

(Redirected from Workplace culture)
Customary behaviours in an organization
"Business culture" redirects here. For other uses, see Culture.
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Organizational culture" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (May 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Business administration
Accounting
Management accounting
Financial accounting
Audit

Business entity (list)
Corporate group
Corporation sole
Company
Conglomerate
Holding company
Cooperative
Corporation
Joint-stock company
Limited liability company
Partnership
Privately held company
Sole proprietorship
State-owned enterprise

Corporate governance
Annual general meeting
Board of directors
Supervisory board
Advisory board
Audit committee

Corporate law
Commercial law
Constitutional documents
Contract
Corporate crime
Corporate liability
Insolvency law
International trade law
Mergers and acquisitions

Corporate title
Chairman
Chief business officer/Chief brand officer
Chief executive officer/Chief operating officer
Chief financial officer
Chief human resources officer
Chief information officer/Chief marketing officer
Chief product officer/Chief technology officer

Economics
Commodity
Public economics
Labour economics
Development economics
International economics
Mixed economy
Planned economy
Econometrics
Environmental economics
Open economy
Market economy
Knowledge economy
Microeconomics
Macroeconomics
Economic development
Economic statistics

Finance
Financial statement
Insurance
Factoring
Cash conversion cycle
Insider dealing
Capital budgeting
Commercial bank
Derivative
Financial statement analysis
Financial risk
Public finance
Corporate finance
Managerial finance
International finance
Liquidation
Stock market
Financial market
Tax
Financial institution
Capital management
Venture capital

Types of management
Asset
Brand
Business intelligence
Business development
Capacity
Capability
Change
innovation
Commercial
Marketing
Communications
Configuration
Conflict
Content
Customer relationship
Distributed
Earned value
Electronic business
Enterprise resource planning 
management information system
Financial
Human resource 
development
Incident
Knowledge
Legal
Materials
Network
administrator
Office
Operations 
services
Performance
Power
Process
Product life-cycle
Product
Project
Property
Quality
Records
Resource
Risk 
crisis
Sales
Security
Service
Strategic
Supply chain
Systems
administrator
Talent
Technology

Organization
Architecture
Behavior
Communication
Culture
Conflict
Development
Engineering
Hierarchy
Patterns
Space
Structure

Trade
Business analysis
Business ethics
Business plan
Business judgment rule
Consumer behaviour
Business operations
International business
Business model
International trade
Trade route
Business process
Business statistics

 Business and economics portalvte
Organizational culture encompasses the shared norms, values, corporate language and behaviors - observed in schools, universities, not-for-profit groups, government agencies, and businesses - reflecting their core values and strategic direction.[1][2] Alternative terms include business culture, corporate culture and company culture.[3] The term corporate culture emerged in the late 1980s and early 1990s.[4][5] It was used by managers, sociologists, and organizational theorists in the 1980s.[6][7]
Organizational culture influences how people interact, how decisions are made (or avoided), the context within which cultural artifacts are created, employee attachment, the organization's competitive advantage, and the internal alignment of its units. It is distinct from national culture or the broader cultural background of its workforce.
A related topic, organizational identity, is concerned with statements and images which are important to an organization and help it to differentiate itself from other organizations. An organization may also have its own management philosophy. Organizational identity influences all stakeholders, leaders and employees alike.[8]


Definition[edit]
Various definitions exist, without consensus. Lesley Willcoxson and Bruce Millett note that organizational cultures can be described in similar ways to wider forms of culture such as national culture.[9] Some of the definitions offered include:

Writers Terrence E. Deal and Allan A. Kennedy defined organizational culture as "the way things get done around here".[10]
According to Elliott Jaques, the culture of a factory "is its customary and traditional way of thinking and doing of things, which is shared to a greater or lesser degree by all its members, and which new members must learn, and at least partially accept, in order to be accepted into service in the firm".[11]
Edgar Schein defined it as including a shared "pattern of basic assumptions" that group members acquired over time as they learn to cope with internal and external organizationally relevant problems.[12]
Ravasi and Schultz characterized it as a set of shared assumptions that guide behaviors.[13] It is also the pattern of such collective behaviors and assumptions that are taught to new organizational members as a way of perceiving, thinking, and feeling.[14]
Schein,[15] Deal and Kennedy,[10] and Kotter[16] advanced the idea that cultures are diverse and may encompass subcultures linked to an individual management teams.[17]
Ravasi and Schultz[18] and Allaire and Firsirotu[19] claim that organizational culture represents the collective values, beliefs and principles of organizational members. It is influenced by factors such as history, type of product, market, technology, strategy, type of employees, management style, and national culture. Culture includes the organization's vision, values, norms, systems, symbols, language, assumptions, environment, location, beliefs and habits.[20][21][22][23] Gallup reported that just 22% of U.S. employees feel connected to their organization's culture.[24]
Geert Hofstede defined organizational culture as "the collective programming of the mind which distinguishes the members of one organization from another".[25]
McHale defines culture as "how the organization functions and its deeply embedded patterns."[26]
History[edit]
Elliott Jaques introduced the concept in his 1951 book The Changing Culture of a Factory.[27] The book was a published report of "a case study of developments in the social life of one industrial community between April, 1948 and November 1950".[11] The case involved a publicly-held British company engaged principally in the manufacture, sale, and servicing of metal bearings. The study concerned itself with the description, analysis, and development of corporate group behaviors.[28]

Analysis[edit]
Researchers have proposed myriad dimensions individually and in combination as useful for analyzing organizational culture. Examples include external/internal, strong/weak, flexible/rigid, and many others.

Insularity[edit]
Culture can be externally focused, aiming to satisfy customers, investors, and partners. Alternatively, they can be internally focused, aiming to satisfy employees, comply with union-imposed rules, or to meet conduct standards around issues such as diversity, equity, and inclusion.[29] Many organizations lie between such extremes, attempting to balance the needs of multiple stakeholders.

Strength[edit]
Any type of culture can be strongly or only tacitly supported. A strong culture is characterized by reinforcing tools such as ceremonies and policies to instill and spread it.[30][predatory publisher] The intent is to secure group compliance.[31]
Researchers generally report that organizations having strong cultures are more successful.[32][33]

Risks[edit]
Tension arises when cultural (personal) and organizational identities do not match well because corporate policies, work practices, and communication styles conflict with local customs, for example in terms of formal vs. informal work environments, direct vs. indirect communication, and individualistic vs. collectivist approaches.[34][35][36]

Cultural[edit]
See also: Cross-cultural differences in decision-making and Cross-cultural psychology
Organizational culture is used to control, coordinate, and integrate distinct groups across the organization.[37] Differences in national cultures must be addressed.[38] Such differences include organizational structure and manager/employee relationships.[39]

Groupthink[edit]
Janis defined groupthink as "a mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in a cohesive in-group, when the members' strivings for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative courses of action."[40] This is a state in which even if group members have different ideas, they do not challenge the group. Groupthink can lead to lack of creativity and decisions made without critical evaluation.[41] Hogg and separately Deanne et al. stated that groupthink can occur, for example, when group members rely heavily on a charismatic figure or where members evince an "evangelical"[42][43] belief in the organization's values. Groupthink can also occur in groups characterized by a friendly climate conducive to conflict avoidance.

Five Monkeys Experiment[edit]
Since the late 1960s, the so-called 'Five Monkeys Experiment' that serves to exemplify the adverse effects of unquestioned traditions has become part of management lore, often titled "How Company Policy Is Made".[44]
It imagines a situation where five monkeys are in a cage with a banana tied to the ceiling. Whenever a monkey climbs to reach the banana, all five are sprayed with cold water. The group quickly learn to ignore the banana and punish any monkey who attempts to reach for it. If one monkey is removed from the cage and replaced with a newcomer, they too are punished for reaching for the banana. If every monkey is subsequently replaced in this manner, so that none present remember being sprayed with cold water, the group will supposedly continue to punish any attempts to reach the banana. The monkeys are perpetuating a caution that may be redundant "because that's the way it's always been around here".[44]

Rigidity[edit]
Kotter and Heskett define an adaptive culture as characterized by managers who pay close attention to their constituencies, especially customers, initiating change when needed, and taking risks. They claim that organizations with adaptive cultures perform better.[16]

Bullying[edit]
Main articles: Bullying culture and Workplace bullying
Bullying manifests in workplaces that allow employees of higher status to harass those of lower status. This generally requires support or at least forbearance from company leaders.[45] Bullying can cascade down the organizational hierarchy as supervisors experiencing bullying display the same behavior to their subordinates.[46]

COVID-19 impact[edit]
The pandemic led many organizations to incorporate limiting spread into their cultures as a collective responsibility. Responses focused on requiring vaccines, hygiene, and masking.
In Asia, mask-wearing was part of several national cultures predating the pandemic.[47] This was driven by experience with prior flus in Asia, such as Spanish flu, Hong Kong flu, Avian flu, and Swine flu, in addition to SARS, as well as various affronts to air quality such as volcanic eruptions.[48]
Somers categorized cultures based on whether the need of the individual or the group was foremost. He used behaviors such as mask-wearing to measure collectivism vs individualism.[49] Cultures otherwise rated "strong" were relatively resistant to change during the pandemic.[50] However, strong cultures that emphasized innovation were more willing to change.
Mandated interventions could be seen by members either as attempts to protect them or to as attempts to exert control despite limited effectiveness, depending on how they were presented.[51]
Digital tools such as videoconferencing, screen-sharing, file sharing, shared document authoring, digital whiteboards, and chat groups became widely accepted, replacing in-person meetings. The reduced amount of face-to-face communications may have impacted organizational cultures. New members, lacking face time with others, experienced difficulty in adapting to their organization's culture. The loss of face-time affected existing employees as well, directly weakening cultures, in addition to the indirect effects that strengthened or weakened cultures as organizations reacted in various ways to the pandemic. Some members felt disengaged and expandable rather than essential, alienated, and exhausted.[52]
Sull and Sull reported that employees rated their leadership higher given honest/open communication, integrity, and transparency more than in preceding years. Also, employers and leaders giving more attention to employees' welfare had a positive impact on cultural adherence.[53] Chambers claimed that this was a short-term response rather than a culture change.[54]
Deloitte argued that employees displayed greater sense of purpose, inspiration, and contribution. Also, leaders became more tolerant of employees' failure because of a significant increase in experimentation and risk-taking.[55]
Daum and Maraist claimed that sense of purpose relates to customers and the society of which employees are part. They compared hospitals and retail shops. The former had a greater sense of purpose during the pandemic, while the latter had less.[56]

Indicators[edit]
Healthy cultures address members' concerns about the well-being of the organization. Whistleblowing, particularly when it damages a company's reputation, is considered to be a sign of a dysfunctional corporate culture, indicating that internal methods of addressing problems are inadequate.[57]

Role of communication[edit]
Promulgating a corporate culture requires effort, typically from leaders, but potentially throughout the organization. Among the many types of communication that affect organizational culture are:[58]

Metaphors such as comparing an organization to a machine or a family.[59][60]
Stories
Rites and ceremonies:[61]
Rites of passage: employees move into new roles
Rites of humiliation: employees have power taken away from them
Rites of enhancement: recognition for accomplishments
Rites of renewal: strengthen existing social structures
Rites of conflict reduction: resolve arguments
Rites of integration: strengthen ties across individuals and groups
Reflexive comments, explanations, justifications, and criticisms of actions:
Plans: comments about anticipated actions
Commentaries: comments about action in the present
Accounts: comments about an action or event that has already occurred
Intended effects[edit]
Numerous outcomes have been associated either directly or indirectly with organizational culture. The relationships between organizational culture and various outcomes include organizational performance, employee commitment, and innovation. A healthy and robust organizational culture is thought to offer various benefits, including:[62][63]

Competitive edge derived from innovation and customer service
Consistent efficient employee performance
Team cohesiveness
High employee morale and job satisfaction[64]
Alignment towards goal achievement
Increased member conscientiousness, leading to better compliance with procedures such as information security, and workplace safety[65][66]
A Harvard Business School study reported that culture has a significant effect on an organization's long-term economic performance. The study examined the management practices at 160 organizations over ten years and found that culture can impact performance. Performance-oriented cultures experienced better financial results. Additionally, a 2002 Corporate Leadership Council study found that cultural traits such as risk taking, internal communications, and flexibility are important drivers of performance. Furthermore, innovativeness, productivity through people, and other cultural factors cited by Peters and Waterman in In Search of Excellence also have positive economic consequences.
Denison, Haaland, and Goelzer reported that culture contributes to the success of the organization, but not all dimensions contribute equally. Effects differed across nations, implying that organizational culture is rooted in national culture.[67]

Culture change[edit]
Cultures are not static and can evolve over time, either organically or through intentional change efforts by management.[68] Culture change may be attempted to reduce member turnover, influence behavior, make improvements to the organization, reset objectives, rescale the organization, or achieve specific results.[69]

Stages[edit]
Organizational cultures have been reported to change in stages. Organizational Communication professor Dave Logan proposed five stages:[70][71]

"Life sucks" (a subsystem severed from other functional systems; such as a tribe, gang or prison—2 percent of population);
"My life sucks" (—25 percent of population);
"I'm great, and you're not" (—48 percent of population);
"We are great, but other groups suck"[verification needed] (unification around more than individual competence—22 percent of population) and
"Life is great" (3 percent of population).
Obstacles[edit]
Existing culture can hinder change efforts, especially where members understand the roles that they are supposed to play. Marquis et al. claimed that 70% of all change efforts fail because of the members. Organizational culture, and the structures in which they are embedded, often exhibit substantial inertia.[72]

Methods[edit]
Change methodologies include Peter Senge's concept of a "learning organization" expressed in The Fifth Discipline or Directive Communication's "corporate culture evolution".
Changing culture takes time. Members need time to get used to the new ways. Organizations with a strong and specific culture are harder to change.[73]
Prior to introducing a cultural change, a needs assessment can characterize the existing culture. This involves some mixture of employ surveys, interviews, focus groups, observation, customer surveys, and other internal research. The company must then describe the new, desired culture, and then design a change process.
Cummings and Worley offer six guidelines for cultural change, in line with the eight distinct stages mentioned by Kotter.[74][75]

Formulate a strategic vision (Kotter stage 1, 2, and 3). A clear vision of the firm's new strategy, shared values and behaviors provides direction for the culture change.[76]
Display top-management commitment (stage 4). Culture change must be managed from the top of the organization, as senior management's willingness to change is an important indicator.[76] Leadership  must be strongly in favor of the change to implement the change. De Caluwé and Vermaak provide a framework with five different ways of thinking about change.[77]
Model change at the highest level (stage 5). In order to show that management wants the change, the change has to be visible and notable. Leadership needs to express the values and behaviors to be realized. It is important that leadership acknowledge the strengths of the current culture; it must be made clear that the culture needs adjustments rather than radical changes.[10][78][79][80][81] This process may include creating committees, task forces, or value managers. Change agents communicate the new culture. They must embody courage, flexibility, interpersonal skills, organization knowledge, and patience. These individuals must be catalysts, rather than dictators.[82]
The fourth step is to modify the organization to support change. This includes identifying systems, policies, procedures and rules accordingly. This may include changes to accountability systems, compensation, benefits/reward structures, and recruitment and retention programs.
Select and socialize newcomers and expel deviants (stage 7 and 8).[75] A way to implement a change is to connect it to organizational membership. People may have to be selected and terminated in terms of their fit with the new culture.[83] Encouraging employee motivation and loyalty is key and creates a healthy culture. Change managers must be able to connect the desired behavior and organizational success. Training  must be provided to employees.
Develop ethical and legal sensitivity. Changes in culture can lead to tensions between organizational and individual interests, which can create legal problems for practitioners. This is particularly relevant for changes in integrity, control, equitable treatment and job security.[83] An evaluation process monitors progress and identifies areas that need further development. This step surfaces obstacles and resistant members, and acknowledges and rewards improvement, which encourages change. It may be necessary to incorporate new change managers, such as outside consultants. People often resist change, leaving it to leadership to convince people that gains outweigh losses. Besides institutionalization, reification is another process that tends to occur in strong cultures. The organization may come to be regarded as a source of pride, and even unique. The organization's members develop a strong bond that transcends material returns, and begin to identify with it, turning the organization into a sort of clan.
Research and models, cultural dimensions[edit]
Several methods have been used to classify organizational culture. While there is no single "type" of organizational culture and organizational cultures vary widely across organizations, researchers have developed models to describe different indicators of organizational cultures.

Hofstede's National Culture Dimensions[edit]
Main article: Hofstede's cultural dimensions theory
Hofstede looked for differences between over 160 000 IBM employees in 50 countries and three regions of the world, searching for aspects of culture that influence business behavior. He emphasized awareness of international differences and multiculturalism. Cultural differences reflect differences in thinking and social action, and in "mental programs", a term Hofstede used for predictable behavior. Hofstede related culture to ethnic and regional differences, but also to the influence of organizations, professional, family, social and subcultural groups, national political systems, and legislation.[84]
He suggested that changing "mental programs" involves changing behavior first, which then leads to value change. Though groups such as Jews and Gypsies have maintained their identity through centuries, their values reflect adaptation to the dominant cultural environment.
Hofstede described national and regional cultural groupings that affect the behavior of organizations and identified four dimensions of culture (later five[85]) in his study of national cultures:

Power distance – Societies adopt various approaches to social inequality. Although invisible, inside organizations' power inequality of the "boss-subordinate relationships" is functional. "According to Mulder's Power Distance Reduction theory subordinates will try to reduce the power distance between themselves and their bosses and bosses will try to maintain or enlarge it", but societies expect differences in power levels to exist.[86]
Uncertainty avoidance is a way of coping with uncertainty. Society copes using technology, law and religion/ritual, along either a rational (technology, law) or non-rational (religion/ritual). Hofstede cited rituals including memos and reports, some parts of accounting systems, parts of planning and control systems, and the invocation of experts.
Individualism vs. collectivism – disharmony of personal and collective interests.[87] Hofstede raised the idea that society's expectations of Individualism/Collectivism are reflected by members. Collectivist societies have more emotional dependence; when in equilibrium an organization is expected to show responsibility to members. Individualist societies more often expect self-reliance. Some cultures have features of both.
Masculinity vs. femininity – reflects whether a certain society emphasizes stereotypical male or female cultural values, gender roles and power relations.
Long- versus short-term orientation[85] – "The long-term orientation dimension can be interpreted as dealing with society's search for virtue. Societies with a short-term orientation generally have a strong concern with establishing the absolute Truth. They are normative in their thinking. They exhibit great respect for traditions, a relatively small propensity to save for the future, and a focus on achieving quick results. In societies with a long-term orientation, people believe that truth depends very much on situation, context and time. They show an ability to adapt traditions to changed conditions, a strong propensity to save and invest, thriftiness, and perseverance in achieving results."[88]
These dimensions help define the effect of national cultures on management, and can be used to adapt to local needs.[89]

Daniel Denison[edit]
Denison's model assessed culture along four dimensions. Each divides into three sub-dimensions:[90]

Mission – Strategic Direction and Intent, Goals and Objectives and Vision
Adaptability – Creating Change, Customer Focus and Organizational Learning
Involvement – Empowerment, Team Orientation and Capability Development
Consistency – Core Values, Agreement, Coordination/Integration
It separately assesses cultures along the dimensions of external/internal focus and flexible/stable evolution.

Deal and Kennedy[edit]
Deal and Kennedy characterized four types of organizations. Each focused on how quickly the organization processes along three dimensions: feedback, member rewards, and risk.[91]

Work-hard, play-hard – Feedback: rapid; risk: low. Stress come from work quantity rather than uncertainty. High-speed action leading to high-speed recreation. Examples: Restaurants, software companies.[91][92]
Macho – Feedback: rapid; reward: rapid; risk: high. Stress comes from risk and potential reward loss/gain. Short-term focus. Examples– police, surgeons, sports.
Process culture – Feedback: slow; reward: slow; risk: low. Low stress, plodding work, comfort and security. Stress comes from internal politics and bureaucracy. Examples: banks, insurance companies.[10][91]
Bet-the-company culture – Feedback: slow; reward: slow; risk: high. Stress comes from high risk and long payoff intervals. Detailed long-term planning. Examples: aircraft manufacturers, oil companies.
Artifacts, values, and tacit assumptions[edit]
Schein claimed that culture is the most difficult organizational attribute to change, outlasting products, services, founders and leadership and all physical attributes. His model considers culture as an observer, characterized in terms of artifacts, values and underlying assumptions.[15]
Schein's model considers attributes that can be experienced by the uninitiated observer – collectively known as artifacts. Included are facilities, offices, furnishings, visible awards and recognition, informal dress codes, member interactions with each other and with outsiders, and company slogans, mission statements and other creeds.

Artifacts are physical elements that convey cultural meaning. Denison described artifacts as the tangible aspects of culture shared by members of an organization. Verbal, behavioral and physical artifacts are the surface manifestations of organizational culture.[90] Technology and art exhibited by members of an organization are examples of physical artifacts. Rituals (myths, stories, and sagas) are artifacts that convey organizational history and influence member understanding of values and beliefs.
Values direct individual behavior such as loyalty and customer orientation. Acceptance of stated values underlies impressions about trustworthiness and supportiveness, while also informing member behavior. This can be assessed by member interviews and surveys.
Tacit assumptions are elements of culture that are not explicitly identified by members. Some elements may be taboo to discuss. Members may not have conscious knowledge of them. Nevertheless, they can influence member behavior. Interviews and surveys do not reveal them—much more in-depth assessment is required.
This model can enable understanding seemingly paradoxical behavior. For instance, an organization can profess high aesthetic and moral standards in terms of values, while violating those values should they conflict with tacit assumptions.

External adaptation and internal integration[edit]
Schein claimed that the two main reasons why cultures develop in organizations are external adaptation and internal integration. External adaptation helps an organization to flourish by affecting its culture. An appropriate culture holds the potential for generating sustained competitive advantage over external competitors.
Internal integration is an important function for establishing essential social structures and aiding socialization at the workplace. Culture-shaping factors include:[15][clarification needed]

External environment
Industry
Size and nature of the organization's workforce
Technologies the organization uses
The organization's history and ownership
Organizational structure, organizational culture[edit]
Organizational structure is linked to organizational culture. Harrison described four types of culture:[93]

Power culture – concentrates power among a small group or a central figure and its control radiates from its center like a web. Power cultures need few rules and little bureaucracy, but swift decisions can ensue.
Role culture – authorities are delegated within a defined structure. These organizations form hierarchical bureaucracies, where power derives from personal position and rarely from expertise. Control is by procedures (which are highly valued), strict role descriptions and authority definitions. These organizations have consistent systems and are predictable. This culture is often represented by a "Roman Building" with "pillars". These pillars represent the functional departments.
Task culture – teams are formed to solve particular problems. Power is derived from the team with the expertise to complete a task. This culture uses a small team approach, where people are highly skilled and specialized in their own area of expertise.[94] Additionally, these cultures often feature multiple reporting lines found in a matrix structure.
Person culture: formed where all individuals believe themselves superior to the organization. It can become difficult for such organizations to operate, since the concept of an organization suggests that members are like-minded individuals who pursue common organizational goals. Some professional partnerships operate well as such cultures, because each partner brings a particular expertise and clientele to the group.
Cultural web[edit]
Johnson described a cultural web, identifying elements that can be used to describe/influence organizational culture:[95]

The paradigm – What the organization is about, what it does, its mission, its values.
Control systems – Processes that monitor activity. Role cultures have vast rule-books. Power cultures rely on individualism.
Organizational structure – Reporting lines, hierarchies, and the way that work flows through the organization.
Power structures – Who makes the decisions, how widely spread is power, and on what is power based?
Symbols – Organizational logos and designs, including symbols such as parking spaces and executive washroom keys.
Rituals and routines – Management meetings, board reports,...
Stories and myths – narratives about people and events that convey values
These elements may overlap. Power structures may depend on control systems, which may exploit rituals that generate stories that may or may not be true.

Schemata[edit]
Schemata are knowledge structures derived from experience that simplify behavioral choices by providing a way to think about events. Schemata are created through interaction with others.[96]
Harris described five categories of in-organization schemata necessary for organizational culture:

Self-in-organization schema – individual self-concept relating to the organization, including personality, roles, and behavior
Individual-in-organization schema – memories, impressions, and expectations of others
Organization schema – a subset of individual schema: generalized perspective on others
Object/concept-in-organization schema – organizational aspects
Event-in-organization schema – knowledge of social events
These schemata represent an individual's knowledge of the organization. Culture results when individual schemata become shared across an organization, primarily through organizational communication, reflecting shared knowledge and meaning.

Reciprocity[edit]
Adam Grant, author of Give and Take, highlights norms of reciprocity in analyzing culture. He distinguishes giver, taker and matcher cultures.

Givers – employees operate by "helping others, sharing knowledge, offering mentoring, and making connections without expecting anything in return"
Takers – "get as much as possible from others while contributing less in return" and winners are those who take the most and are able to build their power even at the expense of others.
Matchers – match giving with taking, and trade favours mostly in closed loops.[97]
In a study of the US intelligence system, giver cultures had the greatest group effectiveness.[97]
Frank claimed that "many organizations are essentially winner-take-all markets, dominated by zero-sum competitions for rewards and promotions". In particular, when leaders implement forced ranking systems to reward individual performance, giver cultures give way to taker or matcher cultures. Awarding the highest-performing individual within each team encourages a taker culture.[97]

Entrepreneurial[edit]
McGuire's model predicted revenue from new sources. An entrepreneurial organizational culture is a system of shared values, beliefs and norms, valuing creativity and tolerance, believing that innovating and seizing market opportunities are solutions to problems of survival and prosperity, environmental uncertainty, competition, and expects members to behave accordingly.[98][99]

People and empowerment focused
Value creation through innovation and change
Attention to basics
Hands-on management
Doing the right thing
Freedom to grow and to fail
Commitment and personal responsibility
Emphasis on the future
Variable, process[edit]
Smircich described two approaches to studying organizational culture: as a variable and as a process.[100] The former could be external or internal, encompassing values, norms, rituals, structures, principles, assumptions, and beliefs.[101] National culture influences that variable.
Driskill and Brenton claimed that culture could be understood as shared cognition, systems of shared symbols, and as the expression of unconscious processes.[101]

Organizational communication[edit]
The organizational communication perspective views culture as falling into three types:[citation needed]

Traditional – views culture through stories, rituals, and symbols
Interpretive – views culture through a network of shared meanings (members sharing subjective meanings)
Critical-interpretive – views culture through a network of shared meanings as well as through power struggles created by competing meanings.
Rosauer observed organizational culture to be emergent – an incalculable state that results from the combination of various ingredients. In "Three Bell Curves: Business Culture Decoded",[102] he outlined three ingredients that he claimed guide business culture:

employee (focus on engagement)
work (focus on eliminating waste increasing value)
customer (focus on likelihood of referral)
Improving these areas brings leadership, employees, work and customers together, improving culture and brand.[102]

Other[edit]
Other frameworks include:

Kets de Vries and Miller (1984):[103] Paranoid, Avoidant, Charismatic, Bureaucratic, and Schizoid
Mitroff and Kilmann (1975):[104] Sensation thinking, Sensation feeling, Intuitive thinking, and Intuitive feeling
Sethia and Von Gilnow in 1985:[105] Caring, Apathetic, Integrative, and Exacting
Deal and Kennedy (1982):[106] organizational environment, core beliefs, heroes of the culture, folklore, myths, rites, rituals of culture, and the cultural network
Ouchi and Jaeger (1978):[107] type A (allows some decision making), J (tribal control), and Z (tribal decision making)
McHale's 4-stage Culture Disruptor: 1. Diagnose the deeply embedded patterns 2. Reframe role of the parts 3. Break the patterns 4. Consolidate one's gains [108]
Instruments[edit]
Organizational Cultural Profile[edit]
O'Reilly, Chatman and Caldwell developed a model based on the belief that cultures can be distinguished by values. Their Organizational Cultural Profile (OCP) is a self-reporting tool that distinguishes eight categories:

Innovation
Supportiveness
Stability
Respect for People
Outcome Orientation
Attention to Detail
Team Orientation
Aggressiveness.
The instrument can measure how culture affects performance, as it discerns persons most suited to an organization and such organizations have an effective culture. Takeda claimed that such instruments can measure both person-situation fit and person-culture fit.[109] Such measurements assess the level of  compatibility between employees and companies. Employee values are measured against organizational values to predict employee turnover.[110][111]

Organizational Culture Assessment Instrument[edit]
Cameron and Quinn developed the Organizational Culture Assessment Instrument (OCAI) that distinguishes four culture types, based on the Competing Values Framework.[112]
Competing values can be assessed along dimensions of flexibility/stability and internal/external focus – they reported these to be the most important in influencing organizational success. These dimensions enable a quadrant of four culture types:

Clan culture is flexible/internally focused.
Adhocracy culture is flexible/externally focused.
Market culture is stable/externally focused.
Hierarchy culture is stable/internally focused.
Organizational Culture Inventory[edit]
Cooke defined culture as behaviors that members believe are required to fit in and meet expectations. The Organizational Culture Inventory measures twelve behavioral norms grouped into three culture types:[113]

Constructive cultures – Members are encouraged to interact with people and approach tasks in ways that help them meet their higher-order satisfaction needs.
Passive/defensive cultures – Members believe they must interact with people in ways that will not threaten their own security.
Aggressive/defensive cultures – Members are expected to approach tasks forcefully to protect their status and security.
Critical views[edit]
Criticism of "organizational culture" began in the early 1980s.[7] Most criticism comes from writers in critical management studies who for example express skepticism about functionalist and unitarist views. They stress the ways in which these assumptions can stifle dissent and reproduce propaganda and ideology. They suggest that organizations do not embody a single culture (diversity), and cultural engineering may not reflect the interests of all stakeholders.
Parker suggested that many of the assumptions surrounding organizational culture are not new. They reflect a long-standing tension between cultural and structural (or informal and formal) versions of organizations. Further, it is reasonable to suggest that complex organizations might have many cultures, and that such sub-cultures might overlap and contradict each other. The neat typologies of cultural forms found in textbooks rarely acknowledge such complexities, or the various economic contradictions that exist in capitalist organizations.[114]
Smircich criticized theories that attempt to categorize or 'pigeonhole' organizational culture.[6][115] She applied the metaphor of a plant root to represent culture, saying that it drives organizations rather than vice versa. Organizations are the product of their organizational culture, which shapes behavior and interaction. While Schein's underlying assumptions are that beliefs, perceptions, thoughts, and feelings are taken for granted and can be observed and considered the ultimate source of values and action. However, such assumptions undermine attempts to categorize and define organizational culture.[116]

See also: Complexity theory and organizations
Legal liability[edit]
In the US, corporate culture can legally be found to be a cause of injuries and a reason for fining companies, such as when the US Department of Labor Mine Safety and Health Administration levied a fine of more than US$10.8 million on Performance Coal Co. following the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster in April 2010. This was the largest fine in the history of this agency.[117]

Subcultures[edit]
Groups within the organization may act according to their own subcultures that are not fully aligned with that of the organization as a whole. For example, computer technicians will have expertise, language and behaviors gained independently of the organization, but their presence can influence the culture of the larger organization.

Shadow side[edit]
Egan and Tate speak of organizations having a "shadow side",[118] which Egan defined as:

All those things that substantially and consistently affect the productivity and quality of the working life of a business, for better or worse, but which are not found on organisation charts, in company manuals, or in the discussions that take place in formal meetings.[119]
Tate describes the shadow side as the "often disagreeable, messy, crazy and opaque aspects of [an] organisation's personality".[118]

See also[edit]

Assessment culture
Confirmation bias – Bias confirming existing attitudes
Belief perseverance – Maintenance of a belief despite new information that firmly contradicts it
Cultural capital – Concept of social status and social mobility
Cultural identity – Identity or feeling of belonging to a group
Diversity – Concept in sociology and political studies
Fail fast (business) – Business management concept
Gareth Morgan (business theorist) – Organizational theorist
Inclusive business
Inclusiveness – Form of social disadvantage and relegation to the fringe of societyPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Kick the cat – Metaphor about frustration within an organization
Kiss up kick down – Form of social malfunction
Lifestyle (sociology) – Interests, opinions, behaviours, and behavioural orientations of an individual, group, or culturePages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Machiavellianism in the workplace – Concept in organizational psychology
Multiculturalism – Existence of multiple cultural traditions within a single country
Narcissism in the workplace – Problem producing an impact on an organization
Organizational behavior – Study of human behavior in organizational settings
Organizational dissent – expression of disagreement or contradictory opinions about organizational practices and policiesPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback
Organizational learning – Academic discipline; examines how goal-driven social entities add and create knowledge
Organizational psychology – Branch of psychologyPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Organizational studies – Academic fieldPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Overwork – Excessive work
Power (social and political) – Ability to influence the behavior of others
People Operations – Organization's workforce
Precarious work – Type of non-standard or temporary employment
Psychological capital – tool used for measuring psychological outcomes, initiated by Fred LuthansPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback
Psychopathy in the workplace – Prevalence of psychopathy in organizations
Realistic job preview
Silicon Valley culture – Technology hub in California, United StatesPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Three circles model – model for the interaction between the managerial culture, the workplace culture and the surrounding culturePages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback
Tick-box culture – Bureaucratic and external impositions on professional working conditions
Working class culture – Culture and life of wage workersPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Workplace diversity – Aspects of a multicultural organization
Presenteeism – Pressure to work while sick
Occupational safety and health – Field concerned with the safety, health and welfare of people at work
References[edit]


^ Cameron, Newton; Ruth, Knight (2022-02-04). Handbook of Research Methods for Organisational Culture. Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN 978-1-78897-626-8.

^ González-Torres, Thais; Gelashvili, Vera; Martínez-Navalón, Juan Gabriel; Herrera-Enríquez, Giovanni (2023-09-15). "Editorial: Organizational culture and climate: new perspectives and challenges". Frontiers in Psychology. 14. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1267945. ISSN 1664-1078. PMC 10542401. PMID 37790231.

^ Graham, John R.; Grennan, Jillian; Harvey, Campbell R.; Rajgopal, Shivaram (2022). "Corporate culture: Evidence from the field". Journal of Financial Economics. 146 (2): 552–593. doi:10.1016/j.jfineco.2022.07.008.

^ "Culture Clash: When Corporate Culture Fights Strategy, It Can Cost You". Arizona State University. March 30, 2011. Archived from the original on 2011-11-10. "Culture is everything", said Lou Gerstner, the CEO who pulled IBM from near ruin in the 1990s.

^ Unlike many expressions that emerge in business jargon, the term spread to newspapers and magazines. Few usage experts object to the term. Over 80 percent of usage experts accept the sentence The new management style is a reversal of GE's traditional corporate culture, in which virtually everything the company does is measured in some form and filed away somewhere.", The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition copyright ©2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Updated in 2009. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company.

^ a b One of the first to point to the importance of culture for organizational analysis and the intersection of culture theory and organization theory is Linda Smircich in her article Concepts of Culture and Organizational Analysis in 1983. See Smircich, Linda (1983). "Concepts of Culture and Organizational Analysis". Administrative Science Quarterly. 28 (3): 339–358. doi:10.2307/2392246. hdl:10983/26094. JSTOR 2392246.

^ a b Farish, Phillip (1982). "Career Talk: Corporate Culture". Hispanic Engineer (1). The term "Corporate Culture" is fast losing the academic ring it once had among U.S. manager. Sociologists and anthropologists popularized the word "culture" in its technical sense, which describes overall behavior patterns in groups. But corporate managers, untrained in sociology jargon, found it difficult to use the term unselfconsciously.

^ Lin, Y.Y. (March 2004). "Organizational Identity and Its Implication on Organization Development". ERIC: Institute of Educational Sciences. Retrieved March 31, 2025.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: url-status (link)

^ Willcoxson, L. and Millett, B., The Management of Organizational Culture, Australian Journal of Management & Organisational Behaviour, 3(2), 91-99, accessed on 2 June 2025

^ a b c d Deal, Terrence E.; Kennedy, Allan A. (1982). Corporate Cultures: The Rites and Rituals of Corporate Life. Addison-Wesley Publishing Company. ISBN 978-0-201-10287-1.

^ a b Jaques, Elliott (1951). The changing culture of a factory. Tavistock Institute of Human Relations. [London]: Tavistock Publications. p. 251. ISBN 978-0-415-26442-6. OCLC 300631. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)

^ Schein, Edgar H. (2020). "Organizational culture". American Psychologist. 45 (2): 109–119. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.45.2.109.

^ Ravasi, D.; Schultz, M. (2006). "Responding to organizational identity threats: Exploring the role of organizational culture". Academy of Management Journal. 49 (3): 433–458. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.472.2754. doi:10.5465/amj.2006.21794663.

^ Schein, Edgar H. (2004). Organizational culture and leadership (3rd ed.). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. pp. 26–33. ISBN 0-7879-6845-5. OCLC 54407721.

^ a b c Schein, Edgar (1992). Organizational Culture and Leadership: A Dynamic View. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 9. ISBN 978-1-55542-487-9.

^ a b Kotter, J. P.; Heskett, James L. (1992). Corporate Culture and Performance. New York: The Free Press. ISBN 978-0-02-918467-7.

^ Runco, Mark A.; Pritzker, Steven R. (2020). "Preface". Encyclopedia of Creativity. pp. vii–ix. doi:10.1016/b978-0-12-815614-8.05001-5. ISBN 978-0-12-815615-5. S2CID 243695843.

^ Ravasi, Davide; Schultz, Majken (June 2006). "Responding to Organizational Identity Threats: Exploring the Role of Organizational Culture". Academy of Management Journal. 49 (3): 433–458. doi:10.5465/amj.2006.21794663.

^ Allaire, Yvan; Firsirotu, Mihaela E. (July 1984). "Theories of Organizational Culture". Organization Studies. 5 (3): 193–226. doi:10.1177/017084068400500301. S2CID 146725972.

^ Hyungrae Jo (December 2012). "The Study on the Influence of Entrepreneurial Orientation and Organizational Culture on Firm Performance". Global Business Administration Review. 9 (4): 345–371. doi:10.17092/jibr.2012.9.4.345.

^ Madan, Manish; Jain, Esha (2015-11-27). "Impact of Organizational Culture & Climate on Managerial Effectiveness: An Empirical Study". Delhi Business Review. 16 (2): 47–57. doi:10.51768/dbr.v16i2.162201518.

^ Lucas, Colleen; Kline, Theresa (2008-04-18). "Understanding the influence of organizational culture and group dynamics on organizational change and learning". The Learning Organization. 15 (3): 277–287. doi:10.1108/09696470810868882. hdl:1880/41747.

^ Denney, Shannon (August 2019). "Driving Change From the Bottom Up in a Top-Down Culture: Disruptive Innovation: One Organization's "Lessons Learned" in Gaining Stakeholder Acceptance". Nurse Leader. 17 (4): 360–364. doi:10.1016/j.mnl.2018.11.004. S2CID 201136594.

^ Gallup, Inc (2023). "Indicator: Organizational Culture". Gallup.com. Retrieved 2023-11-28.

^ Hofstede, G.J.; Hofstede, G.J.; Minkov, M. (1991). Cultures and organizations: Software of the Mind. London: McGraw-Hill, UK. p. 262.

^ The Insider's Guide to Culture Change: Creating A Workplace that Delivers, Grows, and Adapts. Publisher Harper Collins Leadership (2020).

^ Hatch, Mary Jo; Cunliffe, Ann L. (2013) [1997]. "A history of organizational culture in organization theory". Organization Theory: Modern, Symbolic and Postmodern Perspectives (2 ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 161. ISBN 978-0-19-964037-9. OCLC 809554483. Retrieved 7 June 2020. With the publication of his book The Changing Culture of a Factory in 1952, British sociologist Elliott Jaques became the first organization theorist to describe an organizational culture.

^ Kummerow, Elizabeth (12 September 2013). Organisational culture: concept, context, and measurement. Kirby, Neil.; Ying, Lee Xin. New Jersey: World Scientific. p. 13. ISBN 978-981-283-783-7. OCLC 868980134. Jacques [sic], a Canadian psychoanalyst and organisational psychologist, made a major contribution [...] with his detailed study of Glacier Metals, a medium-sized British manufacturing company.

^ "Progress Reporting Hub". corporate.dow.com. Retrieved 2023-12-03.

^ Madu, Boniface C (2012). "Organization culture as driver of competitive advantage" (PDF). Journal of Academic and Business Ethics. 5 (1): 1–9.

^ M. Shakil, Ahmad (2012). "Impact of organizational culture on performance management practices in Pakistan". Business Intelligence Journal. 5 (1): 50–55. S2CID 18576596.

^ Chatman, J. A.; Jehn, K. A. (1 June 1994). "Assessing the Relationship between Industry Characteristics and Organizational Culture: How Different Can You Be?". Academy of Management Journal. 37 (3): 522–553. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.466.3338. JSTOR 256699.

^ Oliva, Rogelio; Kallenberg, Robert (May 2003). "Managing the transition from products to services". International Journal of Service Industry Management. 14 (2): 160–172. doi:10.1108/09564230310474138. S2CID 15739264.

^ Gross-Gołacka, Elwira; Martyniuk, Anna (2024-11-30). "Globalisation and the Challenges of Managing Cultural Diversity: From Multiculturalism to Interculturalism". Journal of Intercultural Management. 16 (3): 37–57. doi:10.2478/joim-2024-0010.

^ Karjalainen, Helena (2020-08-01). "Cultural identity and its impact on today's multicultural organizations". International Journal of Cross Cultural Management. 20 (2): 249–262. doi:10.1177/1470595820944207. ISSN 1470-5958.

^ Olivier, Jacques; Thoenig, Mathias; Verdier, Thierry (2008-12-01). "Globalization and the dynamics of cultural identity". Journal of International Economics. 76 (2): 356–370. doi:10.1016/j.jinteco.2008.06.009. ISSN 0022-1996.

^ Schneider, Susan C. (1988). "National vs. Corporate culture: Implications for human resource management". Human Resource Management. 27 (2): 231–246. doi:10.1002/hrm.3930270207. S2CID 153337682.

^ Dong, Li; Glaister, Keith W. (4 April 2007). "National and corporate culture differences in international strategic alliances: Perceptions of Chinese partners". Asia Pacific Journal of Management. 24 (2): 191–205. doi:10.1007/s10490-006-9010-7. S2CID 154740705.

^ Geert Hofstede, 1991

^ Janis, Irving Lester (1972). Victims of Groupthink: A Psychological Study of Foreign-policy Decisions and Fiascoes. Houghton, Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-395-14002-4.[page needed]

^ Argote, Linda (2013). Organizational Learning: Creating, Retaining and Transferring Knowledge. Springer. pp. 115–146.

^ Hogg, Michael A. (2001). From prototypicality to power: A social identity analysis of leadership. Advances in Group Processes. Vol. 18. Bingley: Emerald Group. pp. 1–30. doi:10.1016/s0882-6145(01)18002-1. ISBN 0-7623-0767-6.

^ Den Hartog, Deanne N.; Koopman, Paul L. (2001). "Leadership in Organizations". Handbook of Industrial, Work & Organizational Psychology. Vol. 2: Organizational Psychology. London: SAGE. pp. 166–187. doi:10.4135/9781848608368.n10. ISBN 978-0-7619-6489-6.

^ a b Groff, Todd R.; Jones, Thomas P. (2003). Introduction to Knowledge Management: KM in Business. Routledge. p. 150. ISBN 978-0-7506-7728-8.

^ Salin, Denise; Hoel, Helge (2010). "Organisational Causes of Workplace Bullying". Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. pp. 140–243. doi:10.1201/EBK1439804896-13 (inactive 2024-11-11). ISBN 978-1-4398-0489-6.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of November 2024 (link)

^ Helge, H; Sheehan, MJ; Cooper, CL; Einarsen, S (2010). "Organisational Effects of Workplace Bullying". Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace: Developments in Theory, Research, and Practice. Retrieved 2023-11-29.

^ Joung, M. (2020). "Face Mask Culture Common in East, New to West".

^ Kiggins, S. (2021). "How does wearing a face mask become the cultural norm? Expert comment".

^ Somers, M. (2021). "How cultural psychology influences mask-wearing". MIT Sloan.

^ Daum, D. L.; Maraist, C. C., C. C. (2021). "The importance of culture in the era of COVID-19". Industrial and Organizational Psychology. 14 (1–2): 160–162. doi:10.1017/iop.2021.40. S2CID 235127386.

^ Weston, M. (2021). "How COVID-19 has impacted organisational culture".

^ Klynn, B. (2021). "Resetting Your Company Culture for a Post-COVID World".

^ Sull, D.; Sull, C. (2020). How Companies Are Winning on Culture During COVID-19.

^ Chambers, R. (2020). "The Pandemic's Impact on Organizational Culture".

^ Deloittee (2020). "Delve Deeper Into Changing Organisational Culture and Mindset Learnings From COVID-19".

^ Daum & Maraist 2021. sfn error: no target: CITEREFDaumMaraist2021 (help)

^ Michael Skapinker (2016-08-24). "Lessons from the Deutsche Bank whistleblower Eric Ben-Artzi: A corporate culture must allow employees to dissent, before they take it outside the company". Financial Times. Archived from the original on 2022-12-10. Retrieved 2016-11-29.

^ Islam, Gazi; Zyphur, Michael J. (February 2009). "Rituals in Organizations: A Review and Expansion of Current Theory". Group & Organization Management. 34 (1): 114–139. doi:10.1177/1059601108329717. S2CID 145357414.

^ "How 8 Organizational Metaphors Impact Leadership". NOBL Academy. 2019-08-28. Retrieved 2023-12-08.

^ Örtenblad, Anders; Putnam, Linda L; Trehan, Kiran (2016). "Beyond Morgan's eight metaphors: Adding to and developing organization theory". Human Relations. 69 (4): 875–889. doi:10.1177/0018726715623999. S2CID 147196387.

^ Chalmers, Richard, and Grace Brannan. “Organizational Culture.” StatPearls [Internet]., U.S. National Library of Medicine, 22 May 2023, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK560543/. 

^ Tadesse Bogale, Addisalem, and Kenenisa Lemi Debela. “Organizational culture: A systematic review.” Cogent Business &amp; Management, vol. 11, no. 1, 19 Apr. 2024, https://doi.org/10.1080/23311975.2024.2340129

^ Solomon, Grant; Brown, Irwin (15 July 2021). "The influence of organisational culture and information security culture on employee compliance behaviour". Journal of Enterprise Information Management. 34 (4): 1203–1228. doi:10.1108/JEIM-08-2019-0217. S2CID 225155658.

^ Adkins & Caldwell 2004.

^ Clarke, Sharon (2006). "The relationship between safety climate and safety performance: A meta-analytic review". Journal of Occupational Health Psychology. 11 (4): 315–327. doi:10.1037/1076-8998.11.4.315. PMID 17059296.

^ Varmazyar, S.; Mortazavi, SB; Arghami, S.; Hajizadeh, E. (2014). "Relationship between organisational safety culture dimensions and crashes". International Journal of Injury Control and Safety Promotion. 23 (1): 72–8. doi:10.1080/17457300.2014.947296. PMID 25494102. S2CID 26702114.

^ Denison, Haaland & Goelzer 2004.

^ Katzenbach, Jon R.; Steffen, Ilona; Kronley, Caroline (2012). "Cultural change that sticks". Harvard Business Review. 90 (7–8): 110–117, 162. PMID 22852451.

^ Kungl, Carla T. (2020). "Artistic contribution and refinement of a corporate values statement: A case history at Publishing Concepts (PCI)". Technical Communication. 67 (4).

^ Logan, Dave; King, John; Fischer-Wright, Halee (2009). Tribal Leadership: Leveraging Natural Groups to Build a Thriving Organization. HarperCollins. ISBN 978-0-06-125130-6.

^ "David Logan: Tribal leadership". YouTube. 6 October 2009. Retrieved 29 November 2024.

^ 
Marquis, Christopher; Tilcsik, András (2013). "Imprinting: Toward A Multilevel Theory". Academy of Management Annals: 193–243. SSRN 2198954.

^ Burman & Evans 2008.

^ Cummings & Worley 2004, pp. 491–492. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 (help)

^ a b Kotter 1995, p. 2.

^ a b Cummings & Worley 2004, p. 490. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 (help)

^ de Caluwe, L.I.A.; Vermaak, H. (2004). "Change Paradigms: An overview". Organization Development Journal. 22 (4): 9–18. ProQuest 197992224.

^ Sathe 1983.

^ Schall 1983.

^ Keick 1985.

^ DiTomaso 1987. sfn error: no target: CITEREFDiTomaso1987 (help)

^ McCune & May 1999. sfn error: no target: CITEREFMcCuneMay_1999 (help)

^ a b Cummings & Worley 2004, p. 491. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 (help)

^ Hofstede 1980

^ a b Hofstede 1984.

^ Mulder 1977.

^ Parsons & Shils 1951. sfn error: no target: CITEREFParsonsShils1951 (help)

^ "Dimensions - Geert Hofstede". Archived from the original on 2013-08-31. Retrieved 2013-08-14.

^ "6 dimensions of organizational culture developed by Geert Hofstede". Geert Hofstede.

^ a b Denison 1990.

^ a b c "Deal and Kennedy's cultural model". changingminds.org. Retrieved 2023-11-29.

^ "What companies really mean when they say "work hard, play hard"". LinkedIn. 2015-06-23. Retrieved 2023-12-08.[self-published source?]

^ Ruiz, Enrique (2009-02-07). Discriminate Or Diversify. PositivePsyche.Biz Corp. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-578-01734-1.

^ Handy 1976.

^ Johnson 1988.

^ Harris 1994.

^ a b c Adam Grant (April 2013). "Givers take all: The hidden dimension of corporate culture". McKinsey. Retrieved 2016-02-06.

^ Hatton, Lindle. "Entrepreneurial Culture". slide 6. Retrieved 2023-08-14.

^ McGuire 2003. sfn error: no target: CITEREFMcGuire2003 (help)

^ Smircich, Linda (1983). "Concepts of Culture and Organizational Analysis". Administrative Science Quarterly. 28 (3): 339–358. doi:10.2307/2392246. hdl:10983/26094. JSTOR 2392246.

^ a b Driskill, Gerald W.; Brenton, Angela Laird (2019). Organizational culture in action: a cultural analysis workbook. New York: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-429-76408-0.

^ a b "Three Bell Curves". www.threebellcurves.com. Retrieved 2023-11-22.

^ Kets de Vries, M. F.; Miller, D. (1984). The Neurotic Organization. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass: Wiley. ISBN 978-0-875-89606-9.

^ Mitroff, I.; Kilmann, R. (1975). "Stories managers tell: a new tool for organisational story telling". Management Review: 18–28.

^ Sethia, N.K.; Von Glinow, M.A.; Serpa, R. (1985). Arriving at four cultures by managing the reward system. pp. In Kilmann, R. H., Saxton, M. J., & Serpa, R. (1985). Gaining control of the corporate culture. Jossey-Bass. Chicago. pp 400–20.

^ Deal, T.E.; Kennedy, A.A. (1982). Corporate cultures: the rites and rituals of corporate life. Reading MA.: Addison Wesley.

^ Ouchi, W.G.; Jaeger, A. M. (1978). "Type Z organisations: stability in the midst of mobility". Academy of Management Review. 3 (2): 18–28. doi:10.5465/amr.1978.4294895.

^ The Insider's Guide to Culture Change, McHale, S (2020). Harper Collins Leadership

^ Takeda, Becky H. (2000). Investigation of employee tenure as related to relationships of personality and personal values of entrepreneurs and their perceptions of their employees. Capella University. ISBN 978-0-549-31750-0. OCLC 927473728.

^ Takeda, Becky H. (2007). Investigation of employee tenure as related to relationships of personality and personal values of entrepreneurs and their perceptions of their employees. p. 2.

^ O'Reilly, Chatman & Caldwell 1991. sfn error: no target: CITEREFO'ReillyChatmanCaldwell1991 (help)

^ Cameron & Quinn 1999.

^ Cooke, R. A. (1987). The Organizational Culture Inventory. Plymouth, MI: Human Synergistics, Inc.

^ Parker 2000.

^ Brewis, Joanna (2005). "Othering Organization Theory: Marta Calás and Linda Smircich". The Sociological Review. 53: 80–94. doi:10.1111/j.1467-954X.2005.00542.x. S2CID 142515159.

^ Packer, Charles (December 2002). A framework for the organizational assumptions underlying safety culture. International conference on safety culture in nuclear installations. Rio de Janeiro.

^ "US Labor Department's MSHA cites corporate culture as root cause of Upper Big Branch Mine disaster". US Department of Labor. May 12, 2011.

^ a b Tate, William (May 2005). "Working with the shadow side of organisations". The Institute For Systemic Leadership. Retrieved 2023-11-29.

^ Egan, Gerard (1994-10-28). Working the Shadow Side: A Guide to Positive Behind-the-Scenes Management. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-7879-0011-3.


Notes[edit]
Adkins, B.; Caldwell, D. (2004). "Firm or subgroup culture: Where does fitting in matter most?". Journal of Organizational Behavior. 25 (8): 969–978. doi:10.1002/job.291.
Burman, R.; Evans, A.J. (2008). "Target Zero: A Culture of safety" (PDF). Defence Aviation Safety Centre Journal. pp. 22–27.
Cameron, Kim S.; Quinn, Robert E. (1999). Diagnosing and changing organizational culture: based on the competing values framework. Addison-Wesley series on organization development. Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley. ISBN 978-0-201-33871-3.
Chatman, Jennifer A.; Jehn, Karen A. (June 1994). "Assessing the Relationship between Industry Characteristics and Organizational Culture: How Different can You Be?". Academy of Management Journal. 37 (3): 522–553. doi:10.5465/256699 (inactive 2024-11-02). JSTOR 256699. ProQuest 199853245.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of November 2024 (link)
Cummings, Thomas (2004). "Organization Development and Change". Dynamics of Organizational Change and Learning. pp. 25–42. doi:10.1002/9780470753408.ch2. ISBN 978-0-471-87737-0.
Denison, Daniel (1990-01-16). Corporate Culture and Organizational Effectiveness. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-471-80021-7.
Denison, Daniel R.; Haaland, Stephanie; Goelzer, Paulo (February 2004). "Corporate Culture and Organizational Effectiveness". Organizational Dynamics. 33 (1): 98–109. doi:10.1016/j.orgdyn.2003.11.008.
Handy, Charles B. (1976). Understanding Organizations. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-508732-1.
Harris, Stanley G (1994). "Organizational Culture and Individual Sensemaking: A Schema-Based Perspective". Organization Science. 5 (3): 309–321. doi:10.1287/orsc.5.3.309.
Harrison, Roger (1972) Understanding your organisation's character, Harvard Business Review
Hofstede, Geert (1984). Culture's Consequences: International Differences in Work-Related Values. SAGE. ISBN 978-0-8039-1306-6.
Hofstede, Geert; Hofstede, Gert Jan (2004-10-03). Cultures and Organizations: Software for the Mind. McGraw Hill Professional. ISBN 978-0-07-150568-0.
Johnson, Gerry (1988). "Rethinking Incrementalism". Strategic Management Journal. 9: 75–91. doi:10.1002/smj.4250090107.
Keick, Karl E. (September 1985). "Cosmos vs. chaos: Sense and nonsense in electronic contexts". Organizational Dynamics. 14 (2): 51–64. doi:10.1016/0090-2616(85)90036-1.
Kotter, J. P. (1995). "Leading change: why transformation efforts fail". Harvard Business Review (73): 59–67. Retrieved 2023-11-29.
Schall, Maryan S. (1983). "A Communication-Rules Approach to Organizational Culture". Administrative Science Quarterly. 28 (4): 557–581. doi:10.2307/2393009. JSTOR 2393009.
McGuire, Stephen J.J. Entrepreneurial organizational culture: Construct definition and instrument development and validation (Thesis).
Mulder, Mauk (1977). The daily power game. doi:10.1007/978-1-4684-6951-6. ISBN 978-1-4684-6953-0.
O'Rielly, Chatman; Caldwell (1991). "People and organizational culture: A profile comparison approach to assessing person-organization fit". Academy of Management Journal. 34 (3): 487–516. JSTOR 256404.
Parker, M. (2000). Organizational Culture and Identity. London: Sage.
Parsons, Talcott; Shils, Edward (1964-12-01). Toward a General Theory of Action: Theoretical Foundations for the Social Sciences. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-7658-0718-2. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Peters; Waterman (1982). In Search of Excellence. New York: Harper & Row.
Sathe, Vijay (September 1983). "Implications of corporate culture: A manager's guide to action". Organizational Dynamics. 12 (2): 5–23. doi:10.1016/0090-2616(83)90030-X. PMID 10264413.
Stoykov, Lubomir (1995). Фирмената култура и комуникация [Company culture and communication] (in Bulgarian). Sofia: Stopanstvo.
Zhang, Xibao (2009). Values, Expectations, Ad Hoc Rules, and Culture Emergence in International Cross Cultural Management Contexts. New York: Nova Science Publishers.
Further reading[edit]
Barney, Jay B. (July 1986). "Organizational Culture: Can It Be a Source of Sustained Competitive Advantage?". Academy of Management Review. 11 (3): 656–665. doi:10.5465/amr.1986.4306261.
Black, Richard J. (2003) Organizational Culture: Creating the Influence Needed for Strategic Success, London UK, ISBN 1-58112-211-X
Bligh, Michelle C (2006). "Surviving Post-merger 'Culture Clash': Can Cultural Leadership Lessen the Casualties?". Leadership. 2 (4): 395–426. doi:10.1177/1742715006068937. S2CID 146156535.
Boddy, C. R. (2011) Corporate Psychopaths: Organizational Destroyers, Palgrave Macmillan
Hartnell, C. A.; Ou, A. Y.; Kinicki, A. (2011). "Organizational Culture and Organizational Effectiveness: A Meta-Analytic Investigation of the Competing Values Framework's Theoretical Suppositions". Journal of Applied Psychology. 96 (4): 677–694. doi:10.1037/a0021987. PMID 21244127.
Jex, Steven M. Jex & Britt, Thomas W. (2008) Organizational Psychology, A Scientist-Practitioner Approach, John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-10976-2.
Kleinbaum, Rob and Aviva (2013). Creating a Culture of Profitability, Probabilistic Publishing, ISBN 978-0-9647938-9-7.
Markus, Hazel (1977). "Self-schemata and processing information about the self". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 35 (2): 63–78. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.35.2.63.
Mills, Albert J (1988). "Organization, Gender and Culture". Organization Studies. 9 (3): 351–369. doi:10.1177/017084068800900304. S2CID 144595059.
O'Donovan, Gabrielle (2006). The Corporate Culture Handbook: How to Plan, Implement and Measure a Successful Culture Change Programme, The Liffey Press, ISBN 1-904148-97-2
Papa, Michael J., et al. (2008), Organizational Communication Perspectives and Trends (4th Ed.). Sage Publications.
Phegan, B. (1996–2000) Developing Your Company Culture, A Handbook for Leaders and Managers, Context Press, ISBN 0-9642205-0-4
Sopow, E. (2007). Corporate personality disorder. Lincoln Neb.: iUniverse.
Luthans, F. & Doh Jonathan, P. (2015). "International Management, Culture, Strategy and Behavior" (9th ed.). McGraw Hill
External links[edit]
Organizational Culture and Institutional Transformation (PDF) – From the Education Resources Information Center Clearinghouse on Higher Education Washington, DC; Corporate executives discuss the importance of building a healthy, effective organizational culture
Organizational Culture, Joel Peterson (Chairman of JetBlue Corporation and managing partner of Trammell Crow Company), Stanford Graduate School of Business
Organizational Culture Trumps Strategy, Mindy Grossman (CEO of the Home Shopping Network [HSN]), Stanford Graduate School of Business
Organizational Culture, Isadore Sharp (founder and chairman of Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts), Stanford Graduate School of Business
Organizational Debt is like Technical debt – but worse, Steve Blank (entrepreneur, investor and Stanford University professor)
vteAspects of organizationsTopics
Architecture
Behavior
Blame
Capital
Cells
Chart
Citizenship behavior
Climate
Commitment
Communication
Complexity
Conflict
Culture
Design
Development
Diagnostics
Dissent
Ecology
Effectiveness
Engineering
Ethics
Field
Hierarchy
Identification
Intelligence
Justice
Learning
Life cycle
Machiavellianism
Narcissism
Network analysis
Ombudsman
Patterns
Perceived support
Performance
Psychology
Resilience
Retaliatory behavior
Safety
Space
Storytelling
Structure
Theory
Workshop
See also
History of organizations
Organization studies
Outline of organizational theory

 See also templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of workplaces

vteCulture OutlineSciences
Cultural anthropology
Cultural astronomy
Cultural ecology
Cultural geography
Cultural neuroscience
Cultural studies
Culturology
Culture theory
Subfields
Bioculture
Cross-cultural studies
Cross-cultural communication
Cross-cultural leadership
Cross-cultural psychiatry
Cross-cultural psychology
Cultural analytics
Cultural economics
Cultural entomology
Cultural history
Cultural mapping
Cultural mediation
Cultural psychology
Cultural values
Culturomics
Intercultural learning
Intercultural relations
Internet culture
Philosophy of culture
Popular culture studies
Postcritique
Semiotics of culture
Sociology of culture
Sound culture
Theology of culture
Transcultural nursing
Types
Constructed culture
Counterculture
Dominant culture
Folk culture
High culture
Individualistic culture
Legal culture
Low culture
Microculture
Official culture
Political culture
Civic
Popular culture
Urban
Primitive culture
Resistance through culture
Subculture
Alternative culture
Fandom
Far-right subcultures
Youth subculture
list
Super culture
Underground culture
Vernacular culture
Culture by location
Aspects
Acculturation
Cultural appreciation
Cultural appropriation
Cultural area
Cultural artifact
Cultural baggage
Cultural bias
Cultural capital
Cross-cultural
Cultural communication
Cultural conflict
Cultural cringe
Cultural dissonance
Cultural emphasis
Cultural framework
Cultural heritage
Destroyed
Cultural icon
Cultural identity
Cultural industry
Cultural invention
Cultural landscape
Cultural learning
Cultural leveling
Cultural memory
Cultural pluralism
Cultural practice
Cultural property
Cultural reproduction
Cultural system
Cultural technology
Cultural universal
Cultureme
Enculturation
High- and low-context cultures
Interculturality
Manuscript culture
Material culture
Non-material culture
Organizational culture
Print culture
Protoculture
Relational mobility
Safety culture
Symbolic culture
Technoculture
Trans-cultural diffusion
Transculturation
Visual culture
Politics
Colonial mentality
Consumer capitalism
Cross cultural sensitivity
Cultural assimilation
Cultural attaché
Cultural backwardness
Cultural Bolshevism
Cultural conservatism
Cultural contracts
Cultural deprivation
Cultural diplomacy
Cultural environmentalism
Cultural exception
Cultural feminism
Cultural genocide
Cultural globalization
Cultural hegemony
Cultural imperialism
Cultural intelligence
Cultural liberalism
Cultural nationalism
Cultural pessimism
Cultural policy
Cultural racism
Cultural radicalism
Cultural retention
Cultural Revolution
Cultural rights
Cultural safety
Cultural silence
Cultural subsidy
Cultural Zionism
Culture change
Culture minister
Culture of fear
Culture war
Deculturalization
Dominator culture
Interculturalism
Monoculturalism
Multiculturalism
Biculturalism
Multiracial democracy
Pluriculturalism
Polyculturalism
Transculturism
Religions
Buddhism
Christianity
Catholicism
Cultural Christians
Protestantism
Role of Christianity in civilization
Eastern Orthodoxy
Mormonism
Cultural Hindus
Islam
Cultural Muslims
Judaism
Sikhism
Related
Animal culture
Archaeological culture
Bennett scale
Cannabis culture
Circuit of culture
Civilization
Coffee culture
Cross-cultural
Cultural center
Cultural competence
Cultural critic
Cultural determinism
Cultural diversity
Cultural evolutionism
Cultural homogenization
Cultural institution
Cultural jet lag
Cultural lag
Cultural literacy
Cultural mosaic
Cultural movement
Cultural mulatto
Cultural probe
Cultural relativism
Cultural tourism
Pop-culture
Cultural translation
Cultural turn
Cultural sensibility
Culture and menstruation
Culture and positive psychology
Culture and social cognition
Culture gap
Culture hero
Culture industry
Culture shock
Culturgen
Children's culture
Culturalism
Cyberculture
Death and culture
Disability culture
Deaf culture
Drinking culture
Drug culture
Eastern culture
Emotions and culture
Intercultural communication
Intercultural competence
Languaculture
Living things in culture
Media culture
Oppositional culture
Participatory culture
Permission culture
Rape culture
Remix culture
Tea culture
Transformation of culture
Urban culture
Welfare culture
Western culture
Youth culture

 Category
 Commons
 WikiProject
Changes

Authority control databases: National GermanyFranceBnF data




Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Organizational_culture&oldid=1293713983"
Categories: Organizational cultureIndustrial and organizational psychologyCorporatismCultural economicsCultural studiesHuman resource managementLabour lawHidden categories: CS1 maint: url-statusCS1 errors: ISBN dateWikipedia articles needing page number citations from December 2023CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of November 2024Harv and Sfn no-target errorsAll articles with self-published sourcesArticles with self-published sources from December 2023Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from January 2020All articles needing additional referencesArticles that may contain original research from May 2024All articles that may contain original researchArticles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles with sources from predatory publicationsAll pages needing factual verificationWikipedia articles needing factual verification from November 2024Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2023All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2023Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated linkPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback via Module:Annotated linkCS1 Bulgarian-language sources (bg)






 This page was last edited on 3 June 2025, at 07:21 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Organizational culture




























34 languages


Add topic
















