



User experience design - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
History








2
Elements




Toggle Elements subsection





2.1
Research








2.2
Visual design








2.3
Information architecture








2.4
Interaction design








2.5
Usability








2.6
Accessibility






2.6.1
WCAG compliance










2.7
Human–computer interaction






2.7.1
Getting ready to design








2.7.2
Design








2.7.3
Test and iterate












3
UX deliverables




Toggle UX deliverables subsection





3.1
After launching a project










4
UX stakeholders




Toggle UX stakeholders subsection





4.1
Interaction designers








4.2
Technical communicators






4.2.1
UX writers










4.3
User interface designers








4.4
Visual designers










5
UX design testing








6
See also








7
References








8
Further reading


















Toggle the table of contents







User experience design



20 languages




AfrikaansالعربيةCatalàČeštinaDeutschEestiEspañolفارسی한국어ՀայերենItalianoМакедонски日本語РусскийSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiУкраїнська粵語中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Field of design focusing on the creation of user-centered products and websites
"UXD" redirects here. For the French political descriptor, see Union of the Far-Right.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "User experience design" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
User experience design (UX design, UXD, UED, or XD), upon which is the centralized requirements for "User Experience Design Research" (also known as UX Design Research), defines the experience a user would go through when interacting with a company, its services, and its products.[1] User experience design is a user centered design approach because it considers the user's experience when using a product or platform.[2] Research, data analysis, and test results drive design decisions in UX design rather than aesthetic preferences and opinions, for which is known as UX Design Research. Unlike user interface design, which focuses solely on the design of a computer interface, UX design encompasses all aspects of a user's perceived experience with a product or website, such as its usability, usefulness, desirability, brand perception, and overall performance. UX design is also an element of the customer experience (CX), and encompasses all design aspects and design stages that are around a customer's experience.[3]


History[edit]
User experience design is a conceptual design discipline rooted in human factors and ergonomics. This field, since the late 1940s, has focused on the interaction between human users, machines, and contextual environments to design systems that address the user's experience.[4] User experience became a positive insight for designers in the early 1990s with the proliferation of workplace computers. Don Norman, a professor and researcher in design, usability, and cognitive science, coined the term "user experience", and brought it to a wider audience that is inside our modernized society.[5]

I invented the term because I thought human interface and usability were too narrow. I wanted to cover all aspects of the person's experience with the system including industrial design graphics, the interface, the physical interaction and the manual. Since then the term has spread widely, so much so that it is starting to lose its meaning.— Donald Norman[6]
Elements[edit]
Research[edit]
Main article: User research
User experience design draws from design approaches like human-computer interaction and user-centered design, and includes elements from similar disciplines like interaction design, visual design, information architecture, user research, and others.
Another portion of the research is understanding the end-user and the purpose of the application. Though this might seem clear to the designer, stepping back and empathizing with the user will yield the best results.
It helps to identify and prove or disprove assumptions, find commonalities across target audience members, and recognize their needs, goals, and mental models.

Visual design[edit]
Visual design, also commonly known as graphic design, user interface design, communication design, and visual communication, represents the aesthetics or look-and-feel of the front end of any user interface.  Graphic treatment of interface elements is often perceived as the visual design.  The purpose of visual design is to use visual elements like colors, images, and symbols to convey a message to its audience. Fundamentals of Gestalt psychology and visual perception give a cognitive perspective on how to create effective visual communication.[7]

Information architecture[edit]
Main article: Information architecture
Information architecture is the art and science of structuring and organizing the information in products and services to support usability and findability.[8]
In the context of information architecture, information is separate from both knowledge and data, and lies nebulously between them. It is information about objects.[9] The objects can range from websites, to software applications, to images et al. It is also concerned with metadata: terms used to describe and represent content objects such as documents, people, process, and organizations. Information architecture also encompasses how the pages and navigation are structured.[10]

Interaction design[edit]
Main article: Interaction design
It is well recognized that the component of interaction design is an essential part of user experience (UX) design, centering on the interaction between users and products.[11] The goal of interaction design is to create a product that produces an efficient and delightful end-user experience by enabling users to achieve their objectives in the best way possible[12][13]
The growing emphasis on user-centered design and the strong focus on enhancing user experience have made interaction designers essential in shaping products that align with user expectations and adhere to the latest UI patterns and components.[14]
In the last few years, the role of interaction designer has shifted from being just focused on specifying UI components and communicating them to the engineers to a situation in which designers have more freedom to design contextual interfaces based on helping meet the user's needs.[15]  Therefore, User Experience Design evolved into a multidisciplinary design branch that involves multiple technical aspects from motion graphics design and animation to programming.

Usability[edit]
Main article: Usability
Usability is the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use.[16]
Usability is attached to all tools used by humans and is extended to both digital and non-digital devices. Thus, it is a subset of user experience but not wholly contained. The section of usability that intersects with user experience design is related to humans' ability to use a system or application. Good usability is essential to positive user experience but does not alone guarantee it.[17]

Accessibility[edit]
Main article: Accessibility
Accessibility of a system describes its ease of reach, use, and understanding. In terms of user experience design, it can also be related to the overall comprehensibility of the information and features.  It helps shorten the learning curve associated with the system. Accessibility in many contexts can be related to the ease of use for people with disabilities and comes under usability.[18] In addition, accessible design is the concept of services, products, or facilities in which designers should accommodate and consider for the needs of people with disabilities. The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) state that all content must adhere to the four main principles of POUR: Perceivable, Operable, Understandable, and Robust.[19]

WCAG compliance[edit]
Main article: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 covers a wide range of recommendations for making Web content more accessible. This makes web content more usable to users in general.[20] Making content more usable and readily accessible to all types of users enhances a user's overall user experience.

Human–computer interaction[edit]
Main article: Human–computer interaction
Human–computer interaction is concerned with the design, evaluation and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them.[21]

Getting ready to design[edit]
After research, the designer uses the modeling of the users and their environments. User modeling or personas are composite archetypes based on behavior patterns uncovered during research. Personas provide designers a precise way of thinking and communicating about how groups of users behave, how they think, what they want to accomplish and why.[22] Once created, personas help the designer to understand the users' goals in specific contexts, which is particularly useful during ideation and for validating design concepts. Other types of models include workflow models, artifact models, and physical models.

Design[edit]
When the designer has a solid understanding of the user's needs and goals, they begin to sketch out the interaction framework (also known as wireframes). This stage defines the high-level structure of screen layouts, as well as the product's flow, behavior, and organization. There are many kinds of materials that can be involved during this iterative phase, from whiteboards to paper prototypes. As the interaction framework establishes an overall structure for product behavior, a parallel process focused on the visual and industrial designs. The visual design framework defines the experience attributes, visual language, and the visual style.[23]
Once a solid and stable framework is established, wireframes are translated from sketched storyboards to full-resolution screens that depict the user interface at the pixel level. At this point, it is critical for the programming team to collaborate closely with the designer. Their input is necessary to create a finished design that can and will be built while remaining true to the concept.[citation needed]

Test and iterate[edit]
Usability testing is carried out by giving users various tasks to perform on the prototypes. Any issues or problems faced by the users are collected as field notes and these notes are used to make changes in the design and reiterate the testing phase.[24] Aside from monitoring issues, questions asked by users are also noted in order to identify potential points of confusion. Usability testing is, at its core, a means to "evaluate, not create".[25]

UX deliverables[edit]
UX designers perform a number of different tasks and, therefore, use a range of deliverables to communicate their design ideas and research findings to stakeholders.[26]  Regarding UX specification documents, these requirements depend on the client or the organization involved in designing a product. The four major deliverables are: a title page, an introduction to the feature, wireframes, and a version history.[27] Depending on the type of project, the specification documents can also include flow models, cultural models, personas, user stories, scenarios, and any prior user research.[26]
The deliverables that UX designers will produce as part of their job include wireframes, prototypes, user flow diagrams, specification and tech docs, websites and applications, mockups, presentations, personas, user profiles, videos, and, to a lesser degree, reports.[28] Documenting design decisions, in the form of annotated wireframes, gives the developer the necessary information they may need to successfully code the project.[29]

After launching a project[edit]
Requires:

User testing/usability testing
A/B testing
Information architecture
Sitemaps and user flows
Additional wireframing as a result of test results and fine-tuning[30]
UX stakeholders[edit]
A user experience designer is considered a UX practitioner, along with the following job titles: user experience researcher, information architect, interaction designer, human factors engineer, business analyst, consultant, creative director, interaction architect, and usability specialist.[31]

Interaction designers[edit]
Interaction designers (IxD) are responsible for understanding and specifying how the product should behave. This work overlaps with the work of both visual and industrial designers in a couple of important ways. When designing physical products, interaction designers must work with industrial designers early on to specify the requirements for physical inputs and to understand the behavioral impacts of the mechanisms behind them. Interaction designers cross paths with visual designers throughout the project. Visual designers guide the discussions of the brand and emotive aspects of the experience, Interaction designers communicate the priority of information, flow, and functionality in the interface.[32]

Technical communicators[edit]
Historically, technical and professional communication (TPC) has been as an industry that practices writing and communication. However, recently UX design has become more prominent in TPC as companies look to develop content for a wide range of audiences and experiences.[33] It is now an expectation that technical and professional skills should be coupled with UX design. According to Verhulsdonck, Howard, and Tham, "...it is not enough to write good content. According to industry expectations, next to writing good content, it is now also crucial to design good experiences around that content."[33] Technical communicators must now consider different platforms such as social media and apps, as well as different channels like web and mobile.[33]

UX writers[edit]
In a similar manner, coupling TPC with UX design allows technical communicators to garner evidence on target audiences. UX writers, a branch of technical communicators, specialize in crafting content for mobile platforms while executing a user-centered approach. UX writers focus on developing content to guide users through interfaces, applications, and websites. Their responsibilities include maintaining UI text, conducting user research for usability testing, and developing the tone for a product's communication.[34]
UX writers maintain the practices of technical communicators, by developing documentation that establishes consistency in terminology and tone, promoting a cohesive user experience. However, beyond the writing, UX writers maintain UI text by ensuring that microscopy, such as button labels, error messages, and tooltips, remains user-friendly, as well. In doing this, the writers are also tasked with ensuring accessibility—considering issues like screen reader compatibility or providing non-text elements, such as icons. UX writers conduct extensive research to understand the behaviors and preferences of the target audience through user testing and feedback analysis. These methods of research can include user persona creation and user surveys. Lastly, when setting the tone in a product's communication, UX writers highlight factors that affect user engagement and perception. In short, the writers consider the product's emotional impact on the users, and align the tone with brand's personality.[34][35]
Within the field of UX design, UX writers bridge the gaps between various fields to create a cohesive and user-centric experience. Their expertise in language and communication work to unify design, development, and user research teams by ensuring that the user interface's content aligns with the broader objectives of the product or service. By focusing on clarity, consistency, and empathy, UX writers contribute to the integration of design elements, technical functionality, and user preferences, while following a design process to ensure products with intuitive, accessible, and responsive behavior to user needs.[36]

User interface designers[edit]
User interface (UI) design is the process of making interfaces in software or computerized devices with a focus on looks or style. Designers aim to create designs users will find easy to use and pleasurable. UI design typically refers to graphical user interfaces but also includes others, such as voice-controlled ones.[37]

Visual designers[edit]
The visual designer ensures that the visual representation of the design effectively communicates the data and hints at the expected behavior of the product. At the same time, the visual designer is responsible for conveying the brand ideals in the product and for creating a positive first impression; this responsibility is shared with the industrial designer if the product involves hardware. In essence, a visual designer must aim for maximum usability combined with maximum desirability. Visual designer need not be good in artistic skills but must deliver the theme in a desirable manner.[38]

UX design testing[edit]
Main article: Usability testing
Usability testing is the most common method designers use to test their designs. The basic idea behind conducting a usability test is to check whether the design of a product or brand works well with the target users. Usability testing is about testing whether the product's design is successful and, if not, how it can be improved.
While designers conduct tests, they are not testing for the user but for the design. Further, every design is evolving, with both UX design and design thinking moving in the direction of Agile software development.[39] The designers carry out usability testing as early and often as possible, ensuring that every aspect of the final product has been tested.[40]
Usability tests play an important role in the delivery of a cohesive final product; however, a variety of factors influence the testing process. Evaluating qualitative and quantitative methods provides an adequate picture of UX designs, and one of these quantitative methods is A/B testing (see Usability testing). Another key concept in the efficacy of UX design testing is the idea of a persona or the representation of the most common user of a certain website or program, and how these personas would interact with the design in question.[41] At the core of UX design usability testing is the user; however, steps in automating design testing have been made, with Micron developing the Advanced Test Environment (ATE), which automates UX tests on Android-powered smartphones. While quantitative software tools that collect actionable data, such as loggers and mobile agents, provide insight into a user's experience, the qualitative responses that arise from live, user based UX design testing are lost. The ATE serves to simulate a devices movement that affects design orientation and sensor operation in order to estimate the actual experience of the user based on previously collected user testing data.[42]

See also[edit]
Action research
Activity-centered design
Agile software development
Attentive user interface
Customer experience
Design thinking
Paper prototyping
Participatory design
Process-centered design
User advocacy
User experience
User experience evaluation
References[edit]


^ Norman, Don; Nielsen, Jakob. "The Definition of User Experience (UX)". Neilsen-Norman Group.

^ Allanwood, Gavin; Beare, Peter (2014-04-24). Basics Interactive Design: User Experience Design: Creating Designs Users Really Love. A&C Black. ISBN 978-2-940496-13-6.

^ Dove, Graham; Halskov, Kim; Forlizzi, Jodi; Zimmerman, John (2017-05-02). "UX Design Innovation: Challenges for Working with Machine Learning as a Design Material". Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. CHI '17. New York, NY, US: Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 278–288. doi:10.1145/3025453.3025739. ISBN 978-1-4503-4655-9. S2CID 9872719.

^ environmental context "THE INTERACTION DESIGN FOUNDATION", by Karen Holtzblatt and Hugh R., Retrieved 2016-08-26

^ Sari; Roto, Virpi; Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, Kaisa; Karapanos, Evangelos; Sinneläa, Arto (2011). "UX Curve: A method for unlimited long-term user experience". Interacting with Computers. 23 (5): 473–483. doi:10.1016/j.intcom.2011.06.005.

^ Merholz, Peter (2007). "Peter in Conversation with Don Norman About UX & Innovation". Adaptive Path.

^ "Visual Design Web Style Guide 3". Web Style Guide. Retrieved 2015-06-18.

^ Information Architecture Institute (2013), What is IA? (PDF)

^ Garrett, Jesse (2011). The Elements of User Experience. New Riders. p. 81. ISBN 978-0-321-68368-7.

^ "Efficiently Simplifying Navigation, Part 1: Information Architecture". Smashing Magazine. 2013-12-03. Retrieved 2020-03-15.

^ "What is Interaction Design?". 25 July 2020.

^ "Principles of Mobile App Design". Archived from the original on 2018-04-13.

^ "What Is User Experience Design? Overview, Tools And Resources". 5 October 2010.

^ "The Five Competencies of User Experience Design".

^ Lowgren, Jonas. Interaction Design - brief intro. Retrieved 2015-06-18. {{cite book}}: |website= ignored (help)

^ "International Standards". UsabilityNet. 1998. Retrieved 2015-06-18.

^ Marcus, Aaron (2015). Design, User Experience, and Usability: Design Discourse. Springer. p. 340. ISBN 978-3-319-20886-2. Retrieved 26 July 2015.

^ Butters, Kerry (16 October 2014). "The Fundamentals of Great UX". Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. Retrieved 26 July 2015.

^ "What is Accessibility?". The Interaction Design Foundation. Retrieved 2021-03-31.

^ "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0". W3C. Retrieved 2017-12-05.

^ "Curricula for Human-Computer Interaction, Chapter 2. Definition and Overview of Human-Computer Interaction". ACM SIGCHI. Archived from the original on 2014-08-17. Retrieved 2015-06-18.

^ Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2 September 2014). About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design (4th ed.). Wiley. p. 62. ISBN 978-1-118-76657-6.

^ Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2014). About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design (4th ed.). Wiley. p. 131. ISBN 978-1-118-76657-6.

^ Treder, Marcin (2012-08-29). "Beyond Wireframing: The Real-Life UX Design Process". Smashing Magazine. Retrieved 2015-06-18.

^ Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2014). About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design. Wiley. p. 140. ISBN 978-1-118-76657-6.

^ a b "An Overview Of The Most Common UX Design Deliverables". Smashing Magazine. 2017-09-27. Retrieved 2020-03-15.

^ Kiess, Chris (2014-05-07). "A Practical Guide to UX Specifications". C L Kiess. Retrieved 2015-06-18.

^ Lauer, Claire; Brumberger, Eva (2016). "Technical Communication as User Experience in a Broadening Industry Landscape". Technical Communication (Washington). 63 (3).

^ "Wireframing – The Perfectionist's Guide". Smashing Magazine. 2016-11-22. Retrieved 2020-03-15.

^ Oscar, Julian. "What's the Difference Between a User Experience (UX) Designer and a User Interface (UI) Designer?". Zantro. Archived from the original on 5 June 2019. Retrieved 2015-09-24.

^ Baxter, Kathy; Courage, Catherine; Caine, Kelly (2015). Understanding Your Users (2nd ed.). Elsevier Science & Technology.

^ Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2 September 2014). About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design (4th ed.). John Wiley & Sons. p. 153. ISBN 978-1-118-76657-6.

^ a b c Verhulsdonck, Gustav; Howard, Tharon; Tham, Jason (2021-09-21). "Investigating the Impact of Design Thinking, Content Strategy, and Artificial Intelligence: A "Streams" Approach for Technical Communication and User Experience". Journal of Technical Writing and Communication. 51 (4): 468–492. doi:10.1177/00472816211041951. ISSN 0047-2816. S2CID 240552938.

^ a b Portmann, Lara (2022-08-01). "Crafting an audience: UX writing, user stylization, and the symbolic violence of little texts". Discourse, Context & Media. 48: 100622. doi:10.1016/j.dcm.2022.100622. ISSN 2211-6958.

^ "Overlap, Influence, Intertwining: The Interplay of UX and Technical Communication - JUX". JUX - The Journal of User Experience. 2011-05-07. Retrieved 2023-10-19.

^ Lies, Erica (2020). "Strategic Writing for UX: Drive Engagement, Conversion, and Retention With Every Word: Torrey Podmajersky [Book Review]". IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication. 63 (4): 404–405. doi:10.1109/TPC.2020.3024409. S2CID 227219994.

^ "What is User Interface (UI) Design?". Retrieved 2020-04-16.

^ Goodwin, Kim (2009). Designing for the Digital Age. Wiley. p. 21. ISBN 978-0-470-22910-1.

^ Da Silva, Tiago Silva; Silveira, Milene Selbach; Maurer, Frank; Silveira, Fábio Fagundes (2018-10-01). "The evolution of agile UXD". Information and Software Technology. 102: 1–5. doi:10.1016/j.infsof.2018.04.008. ISSN 0950-5849. S2CID 51882960.

^ "Usability Testing". usability.gov. 13 November 2013.

^ Porter, Chris; Letier, Emmanuel; Sasse, M. Angela (August 2014). "Building a National E-Service using Sentire experience report on the use of Sentire: A volere-based requirements framework driven by calibrated personas and simulated user feedback". 2014 IEEE 22nd International Requirements Engineering Conference (RE). IEEE. pp. 374–383. doi:10.1109/RE.2014.6912288. ISBN 978-1-4799-3033-3. S2CID 9802003.

^ Canfora, Gerardo; Mercaldo, Francesco; Visaggio, Corrado Aaron; D'Angelo, Mauro; Furno, Antonio; Manganelli, Carminantonio (March 2013). "A Case Study of Automating User Experience-Oriented Performance Testing on Smartphones". 2013 IEEE Sixth International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation. IEEE. pp. 66–69. doi:10.1109/ICST.2013.16. ISBN 978-1-4673-5961-0. S2CID 12596696.


Further reading[edit]
Buxton, Bill (2010). Sketching User Experiences: Getting the Design Right and the Right Design. Elsevier Science. pp. 436. ISBN 978-0-12-374037-3.
Cooper, Alan (1999). The Inmates Are Running the Asylum: Why High-Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity. p. 261. ISBN 978-0-672-31649-4.
Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2014). About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design (4th ed.). John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-76657-6.
Curedale, Robert (2018). Mapping Methods 2: Step-by-step guide Experience Maps Journey Maps Service Blueprints Affinity Diagrams Empathy Maps Business Model Canvas (2nd ed.). Design Community College Incorporated. ISBN 978-1-940805-37-5.
Moggridge, Bill (2006). Designing Interactions. MIT Press. pp. 766. ISBN 978-0-262-13474-3.
Moser, Christian (2008). User Experience Design: Mit erlebniszentrierter Softwareentwicklung zu Produkten, die begeistern. Springer. p. 252. ISBN 978-3-642-13362-6.
Norman, Donald (2013). The Design of Everyday Things. p. 351. ISBN 978-0-465-06710-7.
Tidwell, Jenifer (2005). Designing Interfaces. p. 332. ISBN 978-1-4493-7970-4.
vteDesign
Outline
Designer
DisciplinesCommunicationdesign
Advertising
Book design
Brand design
Exhibit design
Film title design
Graphic design
Motion
Postage stamp design
Print design
Illustration
Information design
Instructional design
News design
Photography
Retail design
Signage / Traffic sign design
Typography / Type design
Video design
Visual merchandising
Environmentaldesign
Architecture
Architectural lighting design
Building design
Passive solar
Ecological design
Environmental impact design
Garden design
Computer-aided
Healthy community design
Hotel design
Interior architecture
Interior design
EID
Keyline design
Landscape architecture
Sustainable
Landscape design
Spatial design
Urban design
Industrialdesign
Automotive design
Automotive suspension design
CMF design
Corrugated box design
Electric guitar design
Furniture design
Sustainable
Hardware interface design
Motorcycle design
Packaging and labeling
Photographic lens design
Product design
Production design
Sensory design
Service design
Interactiondesign
Experience design
EED
Game design
Level design
Video game design
Hardware interface design
Icon design
Immersive design
Information design
Interactive design
Sonic interaction design
User experience design
User interface design
Web design
Otherapplied arts
Public art design
Ceramic / glass design
Fashion design
Costume design
Jewellery design
Floral design
Game art design
Property design
Scenic design
Sound design
Stage/set lighting design
Textile design
Otherdesign& engineering
Algorithm design
Behavioural design
Boiler design
Database design
Drug design
Electrical system design
Experimental design
Filter design
Geometric design
Work design
Integrated circuit design
Circuit design
Physical design
Power network design
Mechanism design
Nuclear weapon design
Nucleic acid design
Organization design
Process design
Processor design
Protein design
Research design
Social design
Software design
Spacecraft design
Strategic design
Systems design
Test design
Approaches
Active
Activity-centered
Adaptive web
Affective
Brainstorming
By committee
By contract
C-K theory
Closure
Configuration
Contextual
Continuous
Cradle-to-cradle
Creative problem-solving
Creativity techniques
Critical
Design fiction
Defensive
Design–bid–build
Design–build
architect-led
Diffuse
Domain-driven
Ecological design
Energy neutral
Engineering design process
Probabilistic design
Ergonomic
Error-tolerant
Evidence-based
Fault-tolerant
Feminist
For assembly
For behaviour change
For manufacturability
For Six Sigma
For testing
For the environment
For X
Framework-oriented
Functional
Generative
Geodesign
HCD
High-level
Hostile
Inclusive
Integrated
Integrated topside
Intelligence-based
Iterative
KISS principle
Low-level
Metadesign
Mind mapping
Modular
New Wave
Object-oriented
Open
Over
Parametric
Participatory
Platform-based
Policy-based
Prevention through
Process-centered
Public interest
Opinion poll
Public opinion
Rational
Regenerative
Reliability engineering
Research-based
Responsibility-driven
RWD
Safe-life
Speculative
Sustainable
Systemic
SOD
Tableless web
Theory of constraints
Top-down and bottom-up
Transformation
Transgenerational
TRIZ
Universal
Design for All
Usage-centered
Use-centered
User-centered
Empathic
User innovation
Value-driven
Value sensitive
Privacy by
Quality by
Secure by
Design choice
computing
controls
culture
flow
justice
leadership
management
marker
methods
pattern
research
science
sprint
strategy
theory
thinking
ToolsIntellectual propertyOrganizationsAwardsTools
AAD
Architectural model
Blueprint
Comprehensive layout
CAD
CAID
Virtual home design software
CAutoD
Design quality indicator
Electronic design automation
Flowchart
Mockup
Design specification
Design system
Prototype
Sketch
Storyboard
Technical drawing
HTML editor
Website wireframe
Intellectualproperty
Clean-room design
Community design
Design around
Design infringement
Design patent
Fashion design copyright
Geschmacksmuster
Industrial design rights
European Union
Organizations
American Institute of Graphic Arts
Chartered Society of Designers
Design and Industries Association
Design Council
International Forum Design
Design Research Society
Awards
European Design Award
German Design Award
Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art)
Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum)
Graphex
IF Product Design Award
James Dyson Award
Prince Philip Designers Prize
Related topics
Agile
Concept art
Conceptual design
Creative industries
Cultural icon
.design
Dominant design
Enterprise architecture
Form factor
Futures studies
Indie design
Innovation management
Intelligent design
Lean startup
New product development
OODA loop
Philosophy of design
Process simulation
Reference design
Slow design
STEAM fields
Unintelligent design
Visualization
Wicked problem
Design attributes
brief
change
classic
competition
architectural
student
director
education
elements
engineer
firm
history
knowledge
language
life
load
museum
optimization
paradigm
principles
rationale
review
specification
studies
studio
technology





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_experience_design&oldid=1294468285"
Categories: Human–computer interactionUser interfacesDesignWeb designSoftware development processHidden categories: CS1 errors: periodical ignoredArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2012All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2019






 This page was last edited on 7 June 2025, at 22:13 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







User experience design




























20 languages


Add topic
















