



Talent management - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
History








2
Implementation




Toggle Implementation subsection





2.1
Talent recruitment








2.2
Evaluations








2.3
Talent marketplace








2.4
Employee retention










3
Current applications








4
See also








5
References


















Toggle the table of contents







Talent management



19 languages




العربيةCatalàDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡ日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiРусскийSlovenščinaSuomiTürkçe中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Anticipation of required human capital for an organization and the planning to meet those needs
For management of the day-to-day business affairs of an artist, see Talent manager.
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Talent management" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (December 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Some of this article's listed sources may not be reliable. Please help improve this article by looking for better, more reliable sources. Unreliable citations may be challenged and removed. (December 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Business administration
Accounting
Management accounting
Financial accounting
Audit

Business entity (list)
Corporate group
Corporation sole
Company
Conglomerate
Holding company
Cooperative
Corporation
Joint-stock company
Limited liability company
Partnership
Privately held company
Sole proprietorship
State-owned enterprise

Corporate governance
Annual general meeting
Board of directors
Supervisory board
Advisory board
Audit committee

Corporate law
Commercial law
Constitutional documents
Contract
Corporate crime
Corporate liability
Insolvency law
International trade law
Mergers and acquisitions

Corporate title
Chairman
Chief business officer/Chief brand officer
Chief executive officer/Chief operating officer
Chief financial officer
Chief human resources officer
Chief information officer/Chief marketing officer
Chief product officer/Chief technology officer

Economics
Commodity
Public economics
Labour economics
Development economics
International economics
Mixed economy
Planned economy
Econometrics
Environmental economics
Open economy
Market economy
Knowledge economy
Microeconomics
Macroeconomics
Economic development
Economic statistics

Finance
Financial statement
Insurance
Factoring
Cash conversion cycle
Insider dealing
Capital budgeting
Commercial bank
Derivative
Financial statement analysis
Financial risk
Public finance
Corporate finance
Managerial finance
International finance
Liquidation
Stock market
Financial market
Tax
Financial institution
Capital management
Venture capital

Types of management
Asset
Brand
Business intelligence
Business development
Capacity
Capability
Change
innovation
Commercial
Marketing
Communications
Configuration
Conflict
Content
Customer relationship
Distributed
Earned value
Electronic business
Enterprise resource planning 
management information system
Financial
Human resource 
development
Incident
Knowledge
Legal
Materials
Network
administrator
Office
Operations 
services
Performance
Power
Process
Product life-cycle
Product
Project
Property
Quality
Records
Resource
Risk 
crisis
Sales
Security
Service
Strategic
Supply chain
Systems
administrator
Talent
Technology

Organization
Architecture
Behavior
Communication
Culture
Conflict
Development
Engineering
Hierarchy
Patterns
Space
Structure

Trade
Business analysis
Business ethics
Business plan
Business judgment rule
Consumer behaviour
Business operations
International business
Business model
International trade
Trade route
Business process
Business statistics

 Business and economics portalvte
Talent management (TM) is the anticipation of required human capital for an organization and the planning to meet those needs.[1] The field has been growing in significance and gaining interest among practitioners as well as in the scholarly debate over the past 10 years as of 2020,[2] particularly after McKinsey's 1997 research[3] and the 2001 book on The War for Talent. Although much of the previous research focused on private companies and organizations, TM is now also found in public organizations.[4][5]
Talent management in this context does not refer to the management of entertainers. Talent management is the science of using strategic human resource planning to improve business value and to make it possible for companies and organizations to reach their goals. Everything done to recruit, retain, develop, reward and make people perform forms a part of talent management as well as strategic workforce planning. A talent-management strategy should link to business strategy and to local context to function more appropriately (Tyskbo, 2019).[2]


History[edit]
The precursor to "talent management" seen extensively in firms during the latter part of the 20th century was centered around internal talent development. An overemphasis was placed on the training and evaluation of managerial positions creating an excess supply of middle-management talent. Poor business forecasting of economic downturn in the 1970s combined with no-layoff policies for white-collar workers resulted in corporate bloat. Recession throughout the 1980s saw large increases in unemployment as firms restructured, placing less importance on internal development. As a result the hiring of outside talent largely replaced the internal development schemes seen in businesses earlier in the century and by the late 1990s had reached its limit. Firms found they were both attracting and losing experienced employees at the same rate and needed to explore new ways of retaining and nurturing incumbent employees.[6]
The term was coined by McKinsey & Company following a 1997 study.[3] The following year in 1998 "talent management" was entered in a paper written by Elizabeth G. Chambers, Mark Foulon, Helen Handfiled-Jones, Steven M. Hankin, and Eduard G. Micheals III. However, the connection between human resource development and organizational effectiveness has been established since the 1970s.[7]


Implementation[edit]
A talent management system is suggested to be used in business strategy and implemented in daily processes throughout the company as a whole.[8] It cannot be left solely to the human resources department to attract and retain employees, but rather be practiced at all levels of an organization. The business strategy must include responsibilities for line managers to develop the skills of their immediate subordinates. Divisions within the company should be openly sharing information with other departments in order for employees to gain knowledge of the overall organizational objectives.[2] The issue with many companies and the military today is that their organizations put tremendous effort into attracting employees to their company, but spend little time into retaining and developing talent.
The talent management strategy may be supported by technology such as HRIS (HR Information Systems) or HRMS (HR Management Systems).

Talent recruitment[edit]
The importance of recruitment of the proper talent is crucial to the overall long term success of the organization. Recruitment processes are vital because if people do not appreciate the initial process, they will not be willing to stay with the organization. Technology has advanced greatly giving many corporations the ability to locate the correct people for the task at hand. Nearly, all multinational enterprises (MNEs) are faced with the challenge of curating a formidable arsenal of its workforce. It has been reported that nearly 75% of the CEOs of the world have pointed out the unavailability of the required skills and capabilities as the main obstacle faced by organizations aiming for their growth (Sen, 2019) [9] Companies need to decide whether it is correct to "buy" or "make" employees. Making an employee refers to teaching the individual certain skills needed for the job. However, it has to be determined whether or not the employee has the potential to learn the skills. Buying an employee is hiring an individual that already possesses the required skills needed for the job. If the person has the required skills, their starting wage will likely have to reflect the talent.[10]

Evaluations[edit]
From a talent management standpoint, employee evaluations concern two major areas of measurement: performance and potential. Current employee performance within a specific job has always been a standard evaluation measurement tool of the profitability of an employee. However, talent management also seeks to focus on an employee's potential, meaning an employee's future performance, if given the proper development of skills and increased responsibility. What goes into these dimensions has been showed to differ depending on local organizational contexts (Tyskbo, 2019).[2]

Talent marketplace[edit]
A talent marketplace is an employee training and development strategy that is set in place within an organization. It is found to be most beneficial for companies where the most productive employees can pick and choose the projects and assignments that are ideal for the specific employee. An ideal setting is where productivity is employee-centric and tasks are described as “judgment-based work,” for example, in a law firm. The point of activating a talent marketplace within a department is to harness and link individuals' particular skills (project management or extensive knowledge in a particular field) with the task at hand. Examples of companies that implement the talent marketplace strategy are American Express and IBM.[11] In today´s globalized economy, cultural agility is a behavioral trait that international enterprises especially value in job applicants at the time of hiring.[12]

Employee retention[edit]
The process of retaining employees to work in the organization on a long-term basis is defined as employee retention (Sen, 2019). Organizational resources are used to train new employees into skilled workers. This gives options to businesses that want to hold onto employees as long as they can. (Sen, 2019). By keeping a healthy long term relationship between employees and management, companies benefit from a skilled and talented staff that will cohesively work together to achieve long term goals. The most important factors involved in employee retention are compensation, workplace environment, growth options, and the support structure of the company (Sen, 2019).[13] One of the greatest drivers of employee engagement and retention are intangible assets, that are mostly related to the way a manager treats their employees.[14] The proper and fair treatment of all employees will increase their engagement levels and in the long run result in less of a need for micromanaging.[15] The main cause for talented people leaving their jobs is due to the fact they are not being allowed to do as much as they would like to do for their organizations. The right employees want to feel impactful and have a feeling of importance as they go about their daily work. Employees are more likely to stay if they have a good relationship and open communication with their immediate boss and have a feeling of importance in the workplace.[16] This is the main reason why frontline leaders should develop their employee retention skills as retention rates are likely to feature prominently in annual reports in the future. If management can hire and keep the right employees on board it will translate into positive and sustainable success in the future.[17]
In Talent: How to Identify Entrepreneurs (2022), economist Tyler Cowen and entrepreneur Daniel Gross suggest that modern societies lack the ability to detect talent and to provide a framework in which talented people can be retained and helped to flourish.[18]

Current applications[edit]
In adverse economic conditions, many companies feel the need to cut expenses. This should be the ideal environment to execute a talent management system as a means of optimizing the performance of each employee and the organization. Selection offers are large return on investments. Job analysis and assessment validation help enhance the predictive power of selection tools. Data points such as cost-per-placement or average time to recruit are critical in predictive analytics for talent management. These evaluation methods use historical data to provide insight.[citation needed] However, within many companies the concept of human capital management has just begun to develop. With more companies in the process of deepening their global footprints,[19] more questions have been asked about new strategies and products, but very few on the kind of leadership structure [20][21] that will bring them success in their globalization process.[22][23] “In fact, only 5 percent of organizations say they have a clear talent management strategy and operational programs in place today.”[24] The impact of globalization on talent management practices is specifically covered in several recent books.[25][26]

See also[edit]
Competence (human resources) – Ability of a person to do a job properly
Competency architecture – Framework of skills used in competency-based learning
Competency dictionary – Competency within an organization
Human resource management – Approach to the effective management of people in a company
References[edit]


^ Carpenter, Mason, Talya Bauer, and Berrin Erdogan. Management and Organizational Behavior. 1. 1. Flatworld Knowledge, 409. Print.

^ a b c d Tyskbo, Daniel (2019). "Competing institutional logics in talent management: Talent identification at the HQ and a subsidiary". The International Journal of Human Resource Management. 32 (10): 1–35. doi:10.1080/09585192.2019.1579248.

^ a b The War for Talent, McKinsey Quarterly

^ Tyskbo, Daniel (2021). "Conceptualizing talent in public sector municipalities". International Review of Administrative Sciences. 89 (2): 519–535. doi:10.1177/00208523211065162. S2CID 245399074.

^ Michaels, Ed; Handfield-Jones, Helen; Axelrod, Beth (2001). The War for Talent. Harvard Business Press. ISBN 9781578514595.

^ Cappelli, Peter (March 2008). "Talent Management for the Twenty-First Century". Harvard Business Review. 1: 2–8. Retrieved 30 October 2020 – via ResearchGate.

^ Schein, Edgar. "Increasing Organizational Effectiveness through Better Human Resources Planning and Development". Sloan Management Review, 1977, 19:1 p. 1.

^ Silzer, Rob; Dowell, Ben E. (23 November 2009). Strategy-Driven Talent Management: A Leadership Imperative. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-7879-8847-0.

^ Sen, Sushmita (2019). Talent Management. Society Publishing. p. 2. ISBN 9781774075333.

^ Sen, Sushmita (2019). Talent Management. Society Publishing. pp. 14, 15. ISBN 9781774075333.

^ Making a Market in Talent Archived 2011-07-27 at the Wayback Machine

^ CALIGIURI, PAULA (2021). BUILD YOUR CULTURAL AGILITY : the nine competencies you need to be a successful global professional. [S.l.]: KOGAN PAGE. ISBN 978-1-78966-661-8. OCLC 1152067760.

^ Sen, Sushmita (2019). Talent Management. Society Publishing. pp. 162, 165. ISBN 9781774075333.

^ Blass, E. (2009). Talent management: Cases and commentary. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)

^ Branham, L. (2005). The 7 hidden reasons employees leave how to recognize the subtle signs and act before it's too late. New York: American Management Association.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)

^ Branham, L. (2005). The 7 hidden reasons employees leave how to recognize the subtle signs and act before it's too late. New York: American Management Association.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)

^ Bannister, M. (2005). Rural social work practice. Wagga Wagga, N.S.W. New York: American Management Association.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)

^ Paris Aéroport, Paris Vous Aime Magazine, No 13, avril-may-juin 2023, p. 72

^ Arp, Frithjof (2014). "Emerging giants, aspiring multinationals and foreign executives: Leapfrogging, capability building, and competing with developed country multinationals". Human Resource Management. 53 (6): 851–876. doi:10.1002/hrm.21610.

^ Arp, Frithjof (2013). "Typologies: What types of foreign executives are appointed by local organisations and what types of organisations appoint them?". German Journal of Human Resource Management. 27 (3): 167–194. doi:10.1177/239700221302700302. hdl:10419/85280. S2CID 56210528.

^ Arp, Frithjof; Hutchings, Kate; Smith, Wendy A. (2013). "Foreign executives in local organisations: An exploration of differences to other types of expatriates". Journal of Global Mobility. 1 (3): 312–335. doi:10.1108/JGM-01-2013-0006.

^ "What does globalisation mean for your leadership culture? - YSC". Archived from the original on 2016-08-18. Retrieved 2 December 2016.

^ Frithjof Arp (16 October 2012). "For success in a cross-cultural environment, choose foreign executives wisely". Global Business and Organizational Excellence. 32 (1): 40–50. doi:10.1002/JOE.21462. ISSN 1932-2054. Wikidata Q56699508.

^ "Talent Management:State of the Industry". Retrieved 2 December 2016.

^ GLOBALIZATION OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES : innovative strategies, successful. [Place of publication not identified]: SPRINGER. 2016. ISBN 978-3-662-50953-1. OCLC 1005124406.

^ Global talent management. David G. Collings, Hugh Scullion, Paula Caligiuri (Second ed.). New York. 2019. ISBN 978-1-351-77827-5. OCLC 1057341407.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) CS1 maint: others (link)


vteManagement
Outline of management
Index of management articles
By typeof organization
Academic
Association
Business
Restaurant
Court
Healthcare
Intelligence
Military
Public
Reputation
By focus,within anorganizationOn scopeStrategic(top-level)
Capability
Capital
Change
Communication
Financial
Innovation
Legal
Performance
Risk
Systems
On component
Facility
Product
Product lifecycle
Brand
Project
Construction
Program
On activity ordepartmentmanagedLine
Marketing
Operations/production
Process
Quality
Sales
Staff
Accounting
Office
Records
On aspect orrelationship
Customer relationship
Engineering
Logistics
Perception
Supply chain
Talent
On problem
Conflict
Crisis
Stress
On resource
Environmental resource
Field inventory
Human resources
Information
Information technology
Knowledge
Land
Materials
Skills
Technology
Time
Positions
Interim
Middle
Senior
Methods,approaches
Adhocracy
Collaborative method
Distributed
Earned value management
Evidence-based management
Full range leadership model
Management by objectives
Management style
Macromanagement
Micromanagement
Scientific management
Social entrepreneurship
Sustainable management
Team building
Virtual management
Skills,activities
Decision-making
Forecasting
Leadership
Pioneers,scholars
Peter Drucker
Eliyahu M. Goldratt
Oliver E. Williamson
Education
Business school
Certified Business Manager
Chartered Management Institute
Critical management studies
Degrees
Bachelor of Business Administration
Master of Business Administration
PhD in management
Doctor of Business Administration
Other
Administration
Collaboration
Corporate governance
Executive compensation
Management consulting
Management control
Management cybernetics
Management development
Management fad
Management system
Managerial economics
Managerial psychology
Managerialism
Organization development
Organizational behavior management
Pointy-haired Boss
 Systems science portal
vteCorporate titlesChief officers
Accessibility
Administrative
Analytics
Audit
Automation
Brand
Business
Channel
Commercial
Communications
Compliance
Content
Creative
Data
Design
Digital
Diversity
Executive
Experience
Financial
Gaming
Happiness
Human resources
Information
Information security
Innovation
Investment
Knowledge
Learning
Legal
Marketing
Medical
Merchandising
Networking
Operating
Privacy
Procurement
Product
Research
Restructuring
Revenue
Risk
Science
Security
Solutions
Strategy
Sustainability
Technology
Visionary
Web
Senior executives
Chairperson
Creative director
Development director
General counsel
Executive director
Non-executive director
President
Representative director
Vice president
Mid-level executives
Manager
General manager
Account manager
Supervisor
Product manager
Foreman
Related topics
Board of directors
Corporate governance
Executive compensation
List of business and finance abbreviations
Senior management
Supervisory board
Talent management

Authority control databases: National Czech RepublicIsrael




Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talent_management&oldid=1292181753"
Categories: Human resource managementDevelopmental psychology1990s neologismsHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: publisher locationCS1 maint: location missing publisherCS1 maint: othersArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from December 2010All articles needing additional referencesArticles that may contain original research from December 2021All articles that may contain original researchArticles lacking reliable references from December 2021All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles with multiple maintenance issuesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2019






 This page was last edited on 25 May 2025, at 16:40 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Talent management




























19 languages


Add topic
















