



Cake - Wikipedia



































Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
History




Toggle History subsection





1.1
Cake mixes










2
Varieties




Toggle Varieties subsection





2.1
Butter cake








2.2
Sponge cake








2.3
Chocolate cake








2.4
Coffee cake








2.5
Flourless cake








2.6
Layer cakes








2.7
One-egg cake










3
Comparison with bread








4
Special-purpose cakes








5
Shapes








6
Cake flour








7
Cooking








8
Cake decorating








9
Food safety








10
See also








11
References








12
External links


















Toggle the table of contents







Cake



97 languages




AlemannischÆngliscالعربيةArpetanAsturianuAtikamekwAzərbaycancaবাংলাBanjar閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)Bikol CentralБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡKiswahiliKreyòl ayisyenKurdîLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschMagyarമലയാളംमराठीمصرىBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄Na Vosa VakavitiNederlandsनेपाली日本語НохчийнNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPicardPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRipoarischRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishکوردیСрпски / srpskiSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยThuɔŋjäŋTsetsêhestâheseTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtWalon吴语ייִדיש粵語中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadView sourceView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadView sourceView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide












From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Flour-based baked sweet
For other uses, see Cake (disambiguation).


"Cake slice" redirects here. For the item of cutlery, see Cake and pie server.


Layer cake
Birthday fruit cake
Raisin cake
Cake is a flour confection usually made from flour, sugar, and other ingredients and is usually baked. In their oldest forms, cakes were modifications of bread, but cakes now cover a wide range of preparations that can be simple or elaborate and which share features with desserts such as pastries, meringues, custards, and pies.
The most common ingredients include flour, sugar, eggs, fat (such as butter, oil, or margarine), a liquid, and a leavening agent, such as baking soda or baking powder. Common additional ingredients include dried, candied, or fresh fruit, nuts, cocoa, and extracts such as vanilla, with numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients. Cakes can also be filled with fruit preserves, nuts, or dessert sauces (like custard, jelly, cooked fruit, whipped cream, or syrups),[1] iced with buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders, or candied fruit.
Cake is often served as a celebratory dish on ceremonial occasions, such as weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays. There are countless cake recipes; some are bread-like, some are rich and elaborate, and many are centuries old. Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making (particularly the whisking of egg foams), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur of cooks may bake a cake.


History
The term "cake" has a long history. The word itself is of Viking origin, from the Old Norse word "kaka".[2]
The ancient Greeks called cake πλακοῦς (plakous), which was derived from the word for "flat", πλακόεις (plakoeis). It was baked using flour mixed with eggs, milk, nuts, and honey. They also had a cake called "satura", which was a flat, heavy cake. During the Roman period, the name for cake became "placenta", which was derived from the Greek term. A placenta was baked on a pastry base or inside a pastry case.[3]
The Greeks invented beer as a leavener, frying fritters in olive oil, and cheesecakes using goat's milk.[4] In ancient Rome, the basic bread dough was sometimes enriched with butter, eggs, and honey, which produced a sweet and cake-like baked good.[5] The Latin poet Ovid refers to his and his brother's birthday party and cake in his first book of exile, Tristia.[6]
Early 14th century cakes in England were also essentially bread: the most obvious differences between a "cake" and "bread" were the round, flat shape of the cakes and the cooking method, which turned cakes over once while cooking, while bread was left upright throughout the baking process.[5]
Sponge cakes, leavened with beaten eggs, originated during the Renaissance, possibly in Spain.[7]

Cake mixes
Main article: Baking mix
Cake mix in plastic packets
During the Great Depression, there was a surplus of molasses and the need to provide easily made food to millions of economically depressed people in the United States.[8] One company patented a cake-bread mix to deal with this economic situation and thereby established the first line of cake in a box. In doing so, cake, as it is known today, became a mass-produced good rather than a home- or bakery-made specialty.
Later, during the post-war boom, other American companies (notably General Mills) developed this idea further, marketing cake mix on the principle of convenience, especially to housewives. When sales dropped heavily in the 1950s, marketers discovered that baking cakes, once a task at which housewives could exercise skill and creativity, had become dispiriting. This was a period in American ideological history when women, retired from the war-time labor force, were confined to the domestic sphere while still exposed to the blossoming consumerism in the US.[9] This inspired psychologist Ernest Dichter to find a solution to the cake mix problem in the frosting.[10] Since making the cake was so simple, housewives and other in-home cake makers could expend their creative energy on cake decorating inspired by, among other things, photographs in magazines of elaborately decorated cakes.
Ever since boxed cake mix has become a staple of supermarkets, it is often complemented with frosting in a can.[citation needed]

Varieties
Main article: List of cakes
Cakes are broadly divided into several categories, based primarily on ingredients and mixing techniques. There are about hundreds of different types of cakes, but there are two broad categories, that culinary divide them into: shortened, and unshorted cakes. Unshortened cakes contain no fat while shortened cakes do. These types may be combined in baking.
Although clear examples of the difference between cake and bread are easy to find, the precise classification has always been elusive.[5]

Butter cake
Main article: Butter cake
Gooey butter cake
Butter cakes are made from creamed butter, sugar, eggs, and flour. They rely on the combination of butter and sugar beaten for an extended time to incorporate air into the batter.[11] A classic pound cake is made with a pound each of butter, sugar, eggs, and flour. Another type of butter cake that takes its name from the proportion of ingredients used is 1-2-3-4 cake: 1 cup (~240 mL) butter, 2 cups (~480 mL) sugar, 3 cups (~720 mL) flour, and 4 eggs.[12] According to Beth Tartan, this cake was one of the most common among the American pioneers who settled North Carolina.[13]
Baking powder is in many butter cakes, such as Victoria sponge.[14]

Sponge cake
Main article: Sponge cake
Steamed sponge cake called ma lai gao
Sponge cakes (or foam cakes) are made from whipped eggs, sugar, and flour. Traditional sponge cakes are leavened only with eggs. They rely primarily on trapped air in a protein matrix (generally beaten eggs) to provide leavening, sometimes with a bit of baking powder or other chemical leaven added. Egg-leavened sponge cakes are thought to be the oldest cakes made without yeast.
Angel food cake is a white cake that uses only the whites of the eggs and is traditionally baked in a tube pan. The French Génoise is a sponge cake that includes clarified butter. Highly decorated sponge cakes with lavish toppings are sometimes called gateau, the French word for cake. Chiffon cakes are sponge cakes with vegetable oil, which adds moistness.[15]

Chocolate cake
Main article: Chocolate cake
German chocolate cake
Chocolate cakes are butter cakes, sponge cakes, or other cakes flavored with melted chocolate or cocoa powder.[16] German chocolate cake is a variety of chocolate cake.

Coffee cake
Main article: Coffee cake (American)
Coffee cake is generally thought of as a cake to serve with coffee or tea at breakfast or a coffee break. Some types use yeast as a leavening agent, while others use baking soda or baking powder. These cakes often have a crumb topping called streusel or a light glaze drizzle.

Flourless cake
Baked flourless cakes include clementine cakes, baked cheesecakes, and flourless chocolate cakes.

Layer cakes
Main article: Layer cake
Layer cakes are cakes made of stacked layers of sponge or butter cake filled with cream, jam, or other filling in between the layers to hold them together.

One-egg cake
One-egg cakes are made with one egg. They can be made with butter[17] or vegetable shortening.[18] One egg cake was an economical recipe when using two eggs for each cake was too costly.[19]

Comparison with bread
Although clear examples of the difference between cake and bread are easy to find, the precise classification has always been elusive.[5] For example, banana bread may be properly considered either a quick bread or a cake. Yeast cakes are the oldest and are very similar to yeast bread. Such cakes are often very traditional in form and include such pastries as babka and stollen.

Special-purpose cakes
Cakes may be classified according to the occasion for which they are intended. For example, wedding cakes, birthday cakes, cakes for first communion, Christmas cakes, Halloween cakes, and Passover plava (a type of sponge cake sometimes made with matzo meal) are all identified primarily according to the celebration they are intended to accompany. The cutting of a wedding cake constitutes a social ceremony in some cultures. The Ancient Roman marriage ritual of confarreatio originated in the sharing of a cake.
Particular types of cake may be associated with particular festivals, such as stollen or chocolate log (at Christmas), babka and simnel cake (at Easter), or mooncake. There has been a long tradition of decorating an iced cake at Christmas time; other cakes associated with Christmas include chocolate log and mince pies.
A Lancashire Courting Cake is a fruit-filled cake baked by a fiancée for her betrothed. The cake has been described as "somewhere between a firm sponge – with a greater proportion of flour to fat and eggs than a Victoria sponge cake – and a shortbread base and was proof of the bride-to-be's baking skills".  Traditionally it is a two-layer cake filled and topped with strawberries or raspberries and whipped cream.[20]




A decorated birthday cake



A Halloween cake shaped like a pumpkin



Wedding cakes at a bridal show


Shapes
A chocolate sour cream bundt cake
Cakes are frequently described according to their physical form. Cakes may be small and intended for individual consumption. Larger cakes may be made to be sliced and served as part of a meal or social function. Common shapes include:

Bundt cakes
Cake dress
Cake balls
Cake pops
Conical, such as the Kransekake
Cupcakes and madeleines, which are both sized for a single person
Layer cakes, frequently baked in a springform pan and decorated
Sheet cakes, simple, flat, rectangular cakes baked in sheet pans
Swiss rolls

Cakes by shape


A plate of white chocolate cake balls



The kransekage is an example of a conical cake.



Dobos torte is an older form of layer cake.



A sheet cake


Cake flour
Main article: Flour
Special cake flour with a high starch-to-gluten ratio is made from fine-textured, soft, low-protein wheat. It is strongly bleached and compared to all-purpose flour, cake flour tends to result in cakes with a lighter, less dense texture.[21] Therefore, it is frequently specified or preferred in cakes meant to be soft, light or bright white, such as angel food cake. However, if cake flour is called for, a substitute can be made by replacing a small percentage of all-purpose flour with cornstarch or removing two tablespoons from each cup of all-purpose flour.[22][23][24] Some recipes explicitly specify or permit all-purpose flour, notably where a firmer or denser cake texture is desired.

Cooking
Baking a basic yellow cake
A cake can fail to bake properly, which is called "falling". In a cake that "falls", parts may sink or flatten, because it was baked at a temperature that is too low or too hot,[25][26] when it has been underbaked[26] and when placed in an oven that is too hot at the beginning of the baking process.[27] The use of excessive amounts of sugar, flour, fat or leavening can also cause a cake to fall.[27][28] A cake can also fall when subjected to cool air that enters an oven when the oven door is opened during the cooking process.[29]

Cake decorating
Main article: Cake decorating
Cake decoration – buttercream swirls being piped onto the sides of this cake with a pastry bag
A finished cake is often enhanced by covering it with icing, or frosting, and toppings such as sprinkles, which are also known as "jimmies" in certain parts of the United States and "hundreds and thousands" in the United Kingdom. The frosting is usually made from powdered (icing) sugar, sometimes a fat of some sort, milk or cream, and often flavorings such as a vanilla extract or cocoa powder. Some decorators use a rolled fondant icing. Commercial bakeries tend to use lard for the fat, and often whip the lard to introduce air bubbles. This makes the icing light and spreadable. Home bakers either use lard, butter, margarine, or some combination thereof. Sprinkles are small firm pieces of sugar and oils that are colored with food coloring. In the late 20th century, new cake decorating products became available to the public. These include several specialized sprinkles and even methods to print pictures and transfer the image onto a cake.
Special tools are needed for more complex cake decorating, such as piping bags and various piping tips, syringes and embossing mats. To use a piping bag or syringe, a piping tip is attached to the bag or syringe using a coupler. The bag or syringe is partially filled with icing which is sometimes colored. Using different piping tips and various techniques, a cake decorator can make many different designs. Basic decorating tips include open star, closed star, basketweave, round, drop flower, leaf, multi, petal, and specialty tips. An embossing mat is used to create embossed effects. A cake turntable that cakes are spun upon may be used in cake decoration.
Royal icing, marzipan (or a less sweet version, known as almond paste), fondant icing
(also known as sugar paste), and buttercream are used as covering icings and to create decorations. Floral sugarcraft or wired sugar flowers are an important part of cake decoration. Cakes for special occasions, such as wedding cakes, are traditionally rich fruit cakes or occasionally Madeira cakes, that are covered with marzipan and iced using royal icing or sugar-paste. They are finished with piped borders (made with royal icing) and adorned with a piped message, wired sugar flowers, hand-formed fondant flowers, marzipan fruit, piped flowers, or crystallized fruits or flowers such as grapes or violets.


Decorated cakes


A large cake garnished with strawberries



A slice of strawberry cake with garnishing of strawberry



Chocolate layer cake with chocolate frosting and shaved chocolate topping



Tank-shaped cake famous in Ōarai, Japan


Food safety
The shelf life of cakes packages for commercial sale depends on several factors. Cakes are intermediate moisture products prone to mold growth. Commercial cakes are frequently and commonly exposed to different mold varieties before they are packaged for sale, including Aspergillus flavus and various penicillins, and Aspergillus niger. Preservatives and oxygen absorbents are currently used to control and inhibit mold growth.
The CDC has recommended not to eat raw cake batter because it can contain pathogens like Salmonella and E. coli.  Cake batter uses raw flour which can contain live bacteria and present a hazard if consumed.[30]

See also

List of cakes
List of baked goods
List of desserts
Pie
Torte
Turnover

References


^ "Cake Filling Types". RecipeTips. 2022. Archived from the original on 2 July 2022. Retrieved 8 May 2022.

^ The history of cakes Archived 29 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine. Devlaming.co.za. Retrieved 23 December 2011.

^ "whatscookingamerica.net". June 2016. Archived from the original on 6 April 2019. Retrieved 16 December 2016.

^ Castella, Krystina (2010). A World of Cake: 150 Recipes for Sweet Traditions From Cultures Around the World, pp. 3–4. ISBN 978-1-60342-576-6.

^ a b c d Ayto, John (2002). An A–Z of food and drink. Oxford [Oxfordshire]: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-280352-2.

^ Ov. Tris. IV. X:12.

^ Castella, Krystina (2010). A World of Cake: 150 Recipes for Sweet Traditions From Cultures Around the World, pp. 6–7. ISBN 978-1-60342-576-6.

^ Park, Michael (2013). "A History of the Cake Mix, the Invention That Redefined 'Baking'". bonappetit.com. Bon Appétit. Archived from the original on 25 October 2021. Retrieved 25 May 2014.

^ Catalano, Christina (2002). "Shaping the American Woman: Feminism and Advertising in the 1950s". Constructing the Past. 3 (1): 45. Archived from the original on 27 November 2021. Retrieved 25 May 2014.

^ "Something Eggstra". Snopes.com. 31 January 2008. Archived from the original on 5 December 2021. Retrieved 25 May 2014.

^ Robbins, Mary Jane. "Creaming butter and sugar". King Arthur Flour. Archived from the original on 14 June 2020. Retrieved 6 December 2015.

^ "Classic 1-2-3-4 Cake and Variations". The Spruce Eats. Archived from the original on 26 September 2021. Retrieved 28 December 2020.

^ Tartan, Beth (1992). North Carolina and Old Salem Cookery. The University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 9780807843758. Archived from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2021.

^ Cloake, Felicity (16 May 2013). "How to make the perfect Victoria sponge cake". Guardian. Archived from the original on 4 September 2021. Retrieved 6 December 2015. [Victoria sponge] is a misnomer, because a true sponge, of the kind used in Swiss rolls, is made from a whisked mixture of eggs, sugar and flour.

^ Medrich, Alice (1997). Joy of Cooking. New York: Scribner. p. 949. ISBN 0-684-81870-1.

^ Berry, Mary. "Chocolate sponge cake". Food: Recipes. BBC. Archived from the original on 22 April 2021. Retrieved 6 December 2015.

^ Farmer, Fannie Merritt (1896). The Boston Cooking-school Cook Book. p. 420. Archived from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2021.

^ Berolzheimer, Ruth (1948). Culinary Arts Institute Encyclopedic Cookbook. Penguin. ISBN 9780399513886. Archived from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2021. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)

^ Good Housekeeping Volume 71. 1920. Archived from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2021.

^ "The history of the Courting Cake, a Lancashire tradition". Lancashire Life. 1 June 2011. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 9 October 2015.

^ Types of Flour Archived 18 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Whatscookingamerica.net. Retrieved 23 December 2011.

^ Cake flour properties and substitutions[usurped]. Gourmetsleuth.com. Retrieved 23 December 2011.

^ What is cake flour?. ninemsn.com.au (1 August 2007). Retrieved 23 December 2011.

^ Irma von Starkloff Rombauer; Marion Rombauer Becker (1975). Joy of cooking. Simon and Schuster. pp. 547–. ISBN 978-0-02-604570-4.

^ Science and Industry. Colliery engineer Company. 1899. p. 174.

^ a b Eicher, L.; Williams, K. (2009). The Amish Cook's Baking Book. Andrews McMeel Publishing. p. 118. ISBN 978-0-7407-8547-4.

^ a b Gelb, A.; Levine, K. (2005). A Survival Guide for Culinary Professionals. Thomson Delmar Learning. p. 243. ISBN 978-1-4018-4092-1.

^ Bureau of Medicine And Surgery, United States. Navy Dept (1944). The Hospital Corps Quarterly: Supplement to the United States Naval Medical Bulletin. p. 128. Archived from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 4 December 2015.

^ Eckhardt, L.W.; Baigrie, J. (2005). Cakes from Scratch in Half the Time. Chronicle Books. p. 23. ISBN 978-0-8118-4240-2.

^ "Raw Dough Can Contain Germs That Make You Sick". CDC. 28 July 2021. Archived from the original on 17 December 2021. Retrieved 21 October 2021.


External links
Listen to this article (18 minutes)
This audio file was created from a revision of this article dated 7 October 2019 (2019-10-07), and does not reflect subsequent edits.(Audio help · More spoken articles)
 The dictionary definition of cake at Wiktionary
vteCakesList of cakesButter cakes
Babka
Banana bread
Gâteau nantais
Gooey butter cake
Pound cake
Cheesecakes
Fiadone
Japanese cheesecake
Ostkaka
Ube cheesecake
Smoked salmon cheesecake
Tu
Basque cheesecake
Nut cakes
Brazil nut cake
Castagnaccio
Chestnut cake
Falculelle
Financier
Neccio
Pain de Gênes
Chocolatecakes
Amandine
Batik cake
Black Forest gateau
Blackout cake
Chocolate brownie
Flourless chocolate cake
Garash cake
German chocolate cake
Hedgehog slice
Joffre cake
Kladdkaka
Molten chocolate cake
Red velvet cake
Sachertorte
Torta caprese
Fruitcakes
Apple cake
Banana cake
Bánh chuối
Black bun
Bolo-rei
Cherry cake
Clementine cake
Crema de fruta
Dundee cake
Fig cake
Genoa cake
Jewish apple cake
Kornigou
Mango cake
Mango float
Panforte
Panpepato
Plum cake
Queen Elizabeth cake
Raisin cake
Strawberry cake
Torta alla Monferrina
Layer cakes
Angel cake
Bolo fiado
Buckwheat gateau
Cassata
Chantilly cake
Coconut cake
Devil's food cake
Doberge cake
Dobos torte
Esterházy torte
Flan cake
Gâteau magique
Lapis legit (spekkoek)
Liver cake
Maria Luisa cake
Cremeschnitte
Šampita
Tompouce
Marlenka
Mikado cake
Princess cake
Prinzregententorte
Rainbow cake
Sarawak cake
Smith Island cake
Torta setteveli
Torta Tre Monti
Torte
Vínarterta
Spit cakes
Baumkuchen
Kürtőskalács (Chimney cake)
Šakotis
Spettekaka
Trdelník
Spongecakes
Bahulu
Bánh bò
Battenberg cake
Boston cream pie
Brown sugar cake
Buko pandan cake
Castella
Charlotte
Coffee and walnut cake
Donauwelle
Fanta cake
Frankfurter Kranz
French Fancy
Frog cake
Génoise
Hot milk cake
Hummingbird cake
Lady Baltimore cake
Ladyfinger
Lamington
Madeira cake
Madeleine
Mantecada
Marry girl cake
Misérable cake
Opera cake
Pandan cake
Paper wrapped cake
Pionono
Rum cake
Shortcake
Spice cake
Tres leches cake
Victoria sponge
Foam cakesand meringue
Angel food cake
Brazo de Mercedes
Chiffon cake
Dacquoise
Kyiv cake
Mamón
Mango cake
Pavlova
Sans rival
Spanische Windtorte
Ube cake
Yema cake
Zuger Kirschtorte
Yeast cakes
Banbury cake
Berlingozzo
Bienenstich
Breudher
Cacavellu
Campanile
Canestru
Chorley cake
Cozonac
Date and walnut loaf
Easter bread
Flies' graveyard
Gugelhupf
Inuliata
Portuguese sweet bread
Pandoro
Rum baba
Streuselkuchen
Specialoccasions
Birthday cake
Buccellato
Christmas cake
Bûche de Noël
Pan de Pascua
Groom's cake
Halloween cake
King cake
Rosca de reyes
Kransekake
Lekach
Love cake
Marry girl cake
Mooncake
Snow skin mooncake
Pască
Pop out cake
Simnel cake
Soul cake
Stack cake
Stollen
Strenna
Wedding cake
By shape
Bundt cake
Cake balls
Cake pop
Cupcake
Petit four
Swiss roll
Upside-down cake
Other
Basbousa
Beer cake
Better than sex cake
Bizcocho
Bulla cake
Carrot cake
Coffee cake
Gingerbread
house
man
Heavy cake
Ice cream cake
Ispanaklı kek
Kue
Kuih
Lolly cake
Louise cake
Mané pelado
Marble cake
Nonnette
Ontbijtkoek
Pain d'épices
Pancake
Parkin
Parrozzo
Punschkrapfen
Rice cake
Ruske kape
Snack cake
Soufflé
Sugee cake
Sweetheart cake
Teacake
Tiramisu
Watergate cake
Welsh cake

 Food portal
 Category

Authority control databases NationalGermanyUnited StatesJapanIsraelOtherNARA




Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cake&oldid=1294655640"
Categories: CakesWorld cuisineEuropean cuisineDessertsTypes of foodHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 errors: ISBN dateArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesUse dmy dates from January 2024All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2024Articles containing Latin-language textArticles with hAudio microformatsSpoken articlesArticles containing video clips






 This page was last edited on 9 June 2025, at 01:35 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Cake




























97 languages


Add topic
















