



Leadership development - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
Developing individual leaders








2
Developing leadership at a collective level








3
Succession planning








4
See also








5
References


















Toggle the table of contents







Leadership development



5 languages




العربيةবাংলাDeutschBahasa Indonesia中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Training process to develop leading abilities
"Leadership training" redirects here. For the courses in the Boy Scouts of America, see Leadership training (Boy Scouts of America).
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Leadership development" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article contains weasel words: vague phrasing that often accompanies biased or unverifiable information. Such statements should be clarified or removed. (December 2016)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Leadership development is the process which helps expand the capacity of individuals to perform in leadership roles within organizations. Leadership roles are those that facilitate execution of an organization's strategy through building alignment, winning mindshare and growing the capabilities of others. Leadership roles may be formal, with the corresponding authority to make decisions and take responsibility, or they may be informal roles with little official authority (e.g., a member of a team who influences team engagement, purpose and direction; a lateral peer who must listen and negotiate through influence).[citation needed]


Developing individual leaders[edit]
Traditionally, leadership development has focused on developing the leadership abilities and attitudes of individuals.[citation needed]
Different personal trait and characteristics can help or hinder a person's leadership effectiveness[1] and require formalized programs for developing leadership competencies.
Classroom-style training and associated reading for leadership development may ail from the possible divergence between knowing what to do and doing what one knows; management expert Henry Mintzberg is one person to highlight this dilemma. A 2015 study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences estimated that as little as 15% of learning from traditional classroom-style training results in sustained behavioral change within workplaces.[2][3]
Baldwin and Ford link success of leadership development efforts to three variables:[4]

Individual learner characteristics
Quality and nature of the leadership development program
Support for behavioral change from the leader's supervisor.
Military officer-training academies, such as the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, go to great lengths to accept only candidates who show the highest potential to lead well.[5] Personal characteristics that are associated with successful leadership development include leader motivation to learn, a high achievement drive and personality traits such as openness to experience, an internal focus of control, and self-monitoring. In order to develop individual leaders, supervisors or superiors must conduct an individual assessment.[6]
Development is also more likely to occur when the design of the development program:

Integrates a range of developmental experiences over a set period of time (e.g., 6–12 months). These experiences may include 360 degree feedback, experiential classroom style programs, business school style coursework, executive coaching, reflective journaling, mentoring and more.
Involves goal-setting, following an assessment of key developmental needs and then an evaluation of the achievement of goals after a given time period.
Among key concepts in leadership development one may find:

Experiential learning: Positioning the individual in the focus of the learning process, going through the four stages of experiential learning as formulated by David A. Kolb:
Concrete experience.
Observation and reflection.
Forming abstract concepts.
Testing in new situations.
Self efficacy: The right training and coaching should bring about 'self efficacy' in the trainee, as Albert Bandura formulated: a person's belief about his capabilities to produce effects.
Visioning: Developing the ability to formulate a clear image of the aspired future of an organization unit.
Attitude: Attitude plays a major role in being a leader.
Developing leadership at a collective level[edit]
Leadership can also be developed by strengthening the connection between, and alignment of, the efforts of individual leaders and the systems through which they influence organizational operations. This has led to a differentiation between leader development and leadership development.[citation needed][7]
Leadership development can build on the development of individuals (including followers) to become leaders. It also needs to focus on the interpersonal linkages in the team.
Following the credo of people as an organization's most valuable resource, some organizations address the development of these resources (including leadership).
In contrast, the concept of "employeeship" recognizes that what it takes to be a good leader is not too dissimilar to what it takes to be a good employee. Therefore, bringing the notional leader together with the team to explore these similarities (rather than focusing on the differences) brings positive results. This approach has been particularly successful in Sweden where the power distance between manager and team is small.[citation needed]

Succession planning[edit]
The development of "high potentials" to take over leadership when the time comes the current leadership to leave their positions is known as succession planning. This type of leadership development usually requires the extensive transfer of an individual between departments. In many multinationals, it usually requires international transfer and experience to build a future leader.
Succession planning requires a sharp focus on the organization's future and vision, in order to align leadership development with the future that the organization aspires to create. Thus successive leadership development is based not only on knowledge and history but also on a dream. For such a plan to be successful, a screening of future leadership should be based not only on "what we know and have" but also on "what we aspire to become".
Persons involved in succession planning should include current leadership members who can articulate the future vision. Three critical dimensions should be considered:

Skills and knowledge;
Role perception and degree of acceptance of leading role; and,
Self-efficacy.[8]
See also[edit]
Action learning
Organization development
Executive education
Business acumen
Collaborative leadership
Leadership studies
Trait leadership
YGLP
Halogen Foundation, an international programme to develop young leaders
Kolb's experiential learning
References[edit]

^ The Leadership Development Handbook, Center for Creative Leadership and Organizational Behavior, 4th ed, by Stephen Robbins, Bruce Millet & Terry Waters-Marsh, published by Prentice Hall

^ Bajak, Aleszu (2014-05-13). "Lectures aren't just boring, they're Ineffective, too, study finds". Science | AAAS. Retrieved 2020-03-15.

^ See Cromwell S., Kolb J. (2004). "An examination of work-environment support factors affecting transfer of supervisory skills training to the work place". Human Resource Development Quarterly. 15 (4): 449–71. doi:10.1002/hrdq.1115.

^ See Baldwin, T. & Ford, K. (1988), "Transfer Of Training: A Review And Directions For Future Research', Personnel Psychology, Spring, Vol. 41 Issue 1, p63-105

^ Organizational Behavior, 4th ed, by Stephen Robbins, Bruce Millet & Terry Waters-Marsh, published by Prentice Hall

^ ADRP 6-22, Army Leadership (PDF). United States Army. August 2012. pp. 7–9. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 20, 2016.

^ Afroditi, Dalakoura (25 May 2010). "Differentiating leader and leadership development: A collective framework for leadership development". Journal of Management Development.

^ Albert Bandura (1977). "Self-efficacy: Toward a unifying theory of behavioral change". Psychological Review. 84 (2): 191–215. doi:10.1037/0033-295x.84.2.191. PMID 847061.






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Leadership_development&oldid=1292151714"
Categories: Human resource managementLeadership studiesHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from July 2014All articles needing additional referencesArticles with weasel words from December 2016Articles with multiple maintenance issuesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2024Articles with unsourced statements from September 2014Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016






 This page was last edited on 25 May 2025, at 13:17 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Leadership development




























5 languages


Add topic
















