



K–12 - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
History




Toggle History subsection





1.1
Australia








1.2
Canada








1.3
United States










2
Etymology








3
Usage








4
K–14, K–16, K–18 and K–20








5
See also








6
Notes








7
References








8
Further reading


















Toggle the table of contents







K–12



15 languages




العربيةBikol CentralDeutschEspañolEuskaraFrançais한국어Bahasa Indonesiaעברית日本語PortuguêsSvenskaTagalogTürkçe中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

(Redirected from K-12 education)


Kindergarten to 12th grade
For other uses, see K12 (disambiguation).
K–12,[a] from kindergarten to 12th grade, is an English language expression that indicates the range of years of publicly supported primary and secondary education found in the United States and Canada, which is similar to publicly supported school grades before tertiary education in several other countries, such as Afghanistan, Armenia, Australia, China, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Iran, the Philippines, South Korea, and Turkey. K–12 refers to the American system which affords authority to local intersectional "districts" which may be specific to a municipality, county, or several regions, depending on population and proximity.[1]


History[edit]
Australia[edit]
In Australia, P–12[2] is sometimes used in place of K–12, particularly in Queensland, where it is used as an official term in the curriculum framework.[3] P–12 schools serve children for the thirteen years from prep until Year 12,[4] without including the separate kindergarten component.

Canada[edit]
In Canada (Nova Scotia), P–12 is used commonly in place of K–12 and serves students from grade Primary through 12.

United States[edit]
U.S. public education was conceived of in the late 18th century. In 1790, Pennsylvania became the first state to require some form of free education for everyone regardless of whether they could afford it. New York passed similar legislation in 1805. In 1820, Massachusetts became the first state to create a tuition-free high school, Boston English.[5]
The first K–12 public school systems appeared in the early 19th century. In the 1830s and 1840s, Ohioans were taking a significant interest in the idea of public education.  At that point in time, schools were commonly operated independently of each other, with little attempt at uniformity. The Akron School Law of 1847 changed this.  The city of Akron unified the operations, curriculum and funding of local schools into a single public school district: 

Under the Akron School Law, there was to be one school district encompassing the entire city. Within that district would be a number of elementary schools, with students divided into separate "grades" based on achievement. When enough demand existed, the school board would establish a high school as well. Property taxes would pay for the new school system. A school board, elected by the community, would make decisions about the system's management and hire the necessary professionals to run each school. Illustrating the racism that existed in Ohio during this era, the Akron School Law excluded African-American children from the public school system.[6]
In 1849, the state of Ohio enacted a law modeled after the Akron law which extended the idea of school districts to cover the rest of the state.
By 1930, all 48 states had passed laws making education compulsory, and in 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), which committed the federal government to significant ongoing expenditures to each state for the purpose of sustaining local K–12 school systems. The ESEA essentially made K–12 education the law of the land.[5]
Since its inception, public K–12 has been debated and subject to several waves of reform throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. In the 1980s, Reagan's 'A Nation at Risk' initiative included provisions requiring public education to be evaluated based on standards, and teacher pay to be based on evaluations. In the 1990s, the Goals 2000 Act and the "Improving America's Schools" act provided additional federal funding to states to bolster local K–12 systems. This was followed in the 2000s by a rigorous uptick in standards-based evaluations with the No Child Left Behind Act in 2001 and the Race to the Top in 2009. In 2015, President Barack Obama signed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), which returned some power to state governments with respect to evaluations and standards.[7]

Etymology[edit]
"The structure of education in the United States"
The expression "K–12" is a shortening of kindergarten (K) for 5–6 year olds through twelfth grade (12) for 17–18 year-olds, as the first and last grades, 
respectively, of free education[8] in these countries. The related term "P–12" is also occasionally used in Australia and the United States to refer to the sum of K–12 plus preschool education.[9][10]
The accompanying image illustrates the education system in the United States. The table shows the progression of the education system starting with the basic K–12 system then progressing through post-secondary education. K–14 refers to K–12 plus two years of post-secondary where training was received from vocational-technical institutions or community or junior colleges. K–16 is 12 years of compulsory education plus a 4-year undergrad program. The K numbers refer to the years of educational attainment and continues to progress upward accordingly depending on the degree being sought.[11]

Usage[edit]
The term is often used as a kind of shorthand to collectively refer to the entirety of primary and secondary education, as it is much easier than having to say one is referring in the aggregate to elementary, middle, and high school education.  However, it is rare for a school district to actually teach all K–12 grades at one unified school campus.  Even the smallest school districts try to maintain, at a minimum, a two-tier distinction between an elementary school (K–8) and a high school (9–12). Unified K–12 schools are common, however, in rural and remote areas throughout Canada. The terms "PK–12", "PreK–12", or "Pre-K–12" are sometimes used to add pre-kindergarten.
In school website URLs, the term also appears in the form "k12" (no punctuation),[12] generally used before the country code top-level domain (or in the United States, the state's second-level domain).[13]
In marketing, the term is also used by American multinationals selling into the educational sector,[14] such as Dell where UK customers are presented with this as a market segment choice.[15]

K–14, K–16, K–18 and K–20[edit]
See also: K–16 (education movement)
K–14 education also includes community colleges (the first two years of university). K–16 education[16] adds a four-year undergraduate university degree. For simplicity purposes,  education shorthand was created to denote specific education levels of achievement. This shorthand is commonly used in articles, publications and educational legislation. The following list contains the most commonly found shorthand descriptors:

P–14: Pre-school to associate degree
P–16: Pre-school to bachelor's degree
P–18: Pre-school to master's degree
P–20: Pre-school to graduate degree
K–14: Kindergarten to associate degree
K–16: Kindergarten to bachelor's degree
K–18: Kindergarten to master's degree
K–20: Kindergarten to graduate degree
The Career Technical Education (CTE) Unit of the California Community College Economic Development and Workforce Preparation Division focuses on program coordination and advocacy, policy development and coordination with K–18 workforce preparation and career and technical education systems.[17]
The ASCCC Chancellor's Office Career Technical Education (CTE) Unit[18] of the Economic Development and Workforce Preparation Division focuses on program coordination and advocacy, policy development and coordination with K–18 workforce preparation and career and technical education systems. Responsible for the implementation of the Vocational and Technical Education Act (VTEA), managing and coordinating activities that impact other interagency and intra-agency objectives. In addition, the CTE Unit is also responsible for the development, dissemination, and implementation of the California State Plan and the annual performance reports.[19]
Further reference to K–18 education can be found in this publication by Ann Diver-Stamnes and Linda Catelli[20] in chapter 4 "College/University Partnership Projects for Instituting Change and Improvement in K–18 Education".

See also[edit]

Education portal
All-through school
Day care
K–12 education in the United States
Notes[edit]


^ Spoken as "k twelve", "k through twelve", or "k to twelve"


References[edit]


^ "Education in the United States". K12 Academics. Archived from the original on July 23, 2018. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ Training, Department of Education and. "P-12 curriculum, assessment and reporting framework". education.qld.gov.au. Archived from the original on August 4, 2014. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ P–12 Curriculum Framework Archived August 4, 2014, at the Wayback Machine – education.qld.gov.au. Retrieved December 5, 2011.

^ "Why is P–12 career education important?". Department of Education and Training (Queensland). 2004. Archived from the original on December 15, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2010.

^ a b Hornbeck, Dustin (April 26, 2017). "Federal role in education has a long history". The Conversation. Retrieved February 4, 2019.

^ "Akron School Law | Ohio History Central". www.ohiohistorycentral.org/. Retrieved February 4, 2019.

^ Finn, Chester Jr. (March 14, 2013). "Short History of K–12 Reform | Hoover Institute". www.hoover.org. Retrieved February 4, 2019.

^ "Online Education Programs & Schooling | K12". K12. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ Heritage College Cooranbong Archived July 23, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, NSW, Australia

^ "P–12 | US Department of Education". Retrieved September 16, 2016.

^ "Digest of Education Statistics, 2012". nces.ed.gov. Retrieved February 5, 2018.

^ Albano, Jessica (June 11, 2000). "Domain Names". UW Faculty Web Server: Jessica Albano. Archived from the original on July 16, 2020. Retrieved February 25, 2025.

^ Koehler, Wallace C., Jr. (1996). "A DESCRIPTIVE ANALYSIS OF WEB DOCUMENT DEMOGRAPHICS: A First Look at Language, Domain Names, and Taxonomy in Latin America". New Information Technology. Archived from the original on March 17, 2010. Retrieved February 25, 2025. The .k12 domain name is not used as a second-level domain name elsewhere, but often occurs as a third-level domain name (e.g. k12.ca.us).{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ "Top 14 Companies in the Smart Education and eLearning Industry | Technavio". www.technavio.com. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ "K-12 Security Transformation". Dell Technologies. December 21, 2023. Archived from the original on February 25, 2025. Retrieved February 25, 2025.

^ "Why we need a K–16 education system - The Hechinger Report". The Hechinger Report. May 11, 2010. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ "Educational Services-CTE". Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved August 27, 2012. http://www.desertcolleges.org/Faculty/Career.htm Archived October 29, 2013, at the Wayback Machine

^ "CTE Community Collaborative : Career Technical Education (CTE)". www.berkeleycitycollege.edu. Archived from the original on July 23, 2018. Retrieved July 23, 2018.

^ "Links to Other Resources | ASCCC". Archived from the original on September 8, 2012. Retrieved August 27, 2012.

^ Barnes & Noble. "Commitment to Excellence: Transforming Teaching and Teacher Education in Inner-City and Urban Settings". Barnes & Noble. Retrieved February 5, 2018.


Further reading[edit]
Williams, Juliet A. (2013). "Girls can be anything... but boys will be boys: discourses of sex difference in education reform debates". Nevada Law Journal. 13 (2). William S. Boyd School of Law: 12.
vteSchool typesBy educational stageEarly childhood
Preschool
Pre-kindergarten
Kindergarten
Primary
First school
Infant school
Junior school
Primary school / Elementary school
Secondary
Adult high school
Cadet college
College-preparatory school
Collegiate institute
Comprehensive school
Comprehensive high school
Continuation high school
Grammar school
Lyceum
Maths school
Minor seminary
Secondary school / High school
Selective school
Gymnasium
Hauptschule
Sixth form college
Studio school
University technical college
Upper school
Tertiary
Professional school
Technical school
Vocational school
Higher
Academy
College
Community college
Graduate school
Institute of technology
Junior college
Liberal arts college
Research university
Residential college
Seminary
University
Collegiate
Upper division college
Vocational university
Combined
All-through school
Middle school
One-room school
Ranch school
By funding / eligibility
Academy (England)
Charter school
Community day school
Comprehensive school
For-profit education
Free education
Free school (England)
Institute
Private school
UK private school
preparatory
public
University
private
public
international
Selective school
Separate school
Sink school
Specialist school (United Kingdom)
State or public school
State-integrated school (New Zealand)
By style / purpose
Alternative school
Democratic education
Anarchistic free school
Sudbury school
International school
Magnet school
Music school
Single-sex education
Specialist school
Vocal school
Progressive
Free school movement
Folk high school
Laboratory school
Montessori school
Waldorf school
Religious
Bible college
Catholic school
Christian school
Female seminary
Gurukula
Parochial school
Madrasa
Yeshiva
By location
Boarding school
Day school
Distance education
Homeschooling
Prison education
Virtual school
By scope
College preparatory
Compensatory education
Compulsory education
Continuing education
Further education
Gifted education
Inclusive education
Remedial education
Special education
Historical
Ancient higher-learning institutions
Platonic Academy
Lyceum
Monastic school
Cathedral school
Medieval university
Historical infant schools
Great Britain
Ireland
Global
Schools imposed onindigenous peoples
in Canada
in New Zealand
in South Africa
in the United States
Informal or illegal
in Ireland
in Greece
in South Tyrol
Related topics
K–12
Educational institution

 Schools portal
 Category
 Commons





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=K–12&oldid=1282768648"
Categories: Educational yearsEducational stagesEducation in North AmericaHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listUse mdy dates from October 2023Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from Wikidata






 This page was last edited on 28 March 2025, at 14:02 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







K–12




























15 languages


Add topic
















