



Workplace wellness - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
History








2
Impact








3
Barriers








4
Framework








5
Health economics of workplace wellness programs




Toggle Health economics of workplace wellness programs subsection





5.1
Affordable Care Act and effects on workplace wellness










6
Importance of leadership support








7
Program development and best practices example




Toggle Program development and best practices example subsection





7.1
Example






7.1.1
Assessment








7.1.2
Implementation








7.1.3
Evaluation












8
Impact








9
Artificial Intelligence and Workplace Wellness




Toggle Artificial Intelligence and Workplace Wellness subsection





9.1
Challenges to Workplace Wellness Posed by AI Implementation








9.2
Potential Benefits of AI for Cultivating Workplace Wellness










10
See also








11
References


















Toggle the table of contents







Workplace wellness



4 languages




العربيةپنجابیSlovenščinaاردو

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Healthy behavior in the workplace
Workplace wellness, also known as corporate wellbeing outside the United States, is a broad term used to describe activities, programs, and/or organizational policies designed to support healthy behavior in the workplace. This often involves health education, medical screenings, weight management programs, and onsite fitness programs or facilities or off site retreats. It can also include flex-time for exercise, providing onsite kitchen and eating areas, offering healthy food options in vending machines, holding "walk and talk" meetings, and offering financial and other incentives for participation.[1]
Companies most commonly subsidize workplace wellness programs in the hope they will reduce costs on employee health benefits like health insurance in the long run.[2] Existing research has failed to establish a clinically significant difference in health outcomes, proof of a return on investment, or demonstration of causal effects of treatments.[3] The largest benefits have been observed in groups that were already attempting to manage health concerns, which indicates a strong possibility of selection bias.[4]


History[edit]
Wellness programs originated in the early 1900s, as labor unions fought for workers' rights and as employers saw the advantages of having a vital, alert, and rested workforce. A few key manufacturers invested in programs to keep their employees healthy and productive. In the 1950s, Dr. Halbert L. Dunn, chief of the National Office of Vital Statistics, introduced the concept of "high-level wellness" to encourage individuals to maximize their potential progress towards better living.[5]

Impact[edit]
Workplace wellness programs have been shown not to prevent the major shared health risk factors specifically for CVD and stroke.[6]

Fraction of gross domestic product (GDP) devoted to health care in a number of developed countries in 2006.
While the stated goal of workplace wellness programs is to improve employee health, many US employers have turned to them to help alleviate the impact of enormous increases in health insurance premiums[7] experienced over the last decade. Some employers have also begun varying the amount paid by their employees for health insurance based on participation in these programs.[8] Cost-shifting strategies alone, through high copayments or coinsurance may create barriers to participation in preventive health screenings or lower medication adherence and hypertension.[9] While it was once believed that for every dollar spent on worksite wellness programs, medical costs fell by $3.27,[10] that hypothesis was disproven by a subordinate of the author of the original study.[11]
One of the reasons for the growth of healthcare costs to employers is the rise in obesity-related illnesses brought about by lack of physical activity, another is the effect of an ageing workforce and the associated increase in chronic health conditions driving higher health care utilization. In 2000 the health costs of overweight and obesity in the US were estimated at $117 billion.[12] Each year obesity contributes to an estimated 112,000 preventable deaths.[13] An East Carolina University study of individuals aged 15 and older without physical limitations found that the average annual direct medical costs were $1,019 for those who are regularly physically active and $1,349 for those who reported being inactive. Being overweight increases yearly per person health care costs by $125, while obesity increases costs by $395.[12] A survey of North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services employees found that approximately 70 cents of every healthcare dollar was spent to treat employees who had one or more chronic conditions, two thirds of which can be attributed to three major lifestyle risk factors: physical inactivity, poor diet, and tobacco use.[14] Obese employees spend 77 percent more on medications than non-obese employees and 72 percent of those medical claims are for conditions that are preventable.[15]
According to Healthy Workforce 2010 and beyond, a joint effort of the US Partnership for Prevention and the US Chamber of Commerce, organizations need to view employee health in terms of productivity rather than as an exercise in health care cost management. The emerging discipline of Health and Productivity Management (HPM) has shown that health and productivity are "inextricably linked" and that a healthy workforce leads to a healthy bottom line. There is now strong evidence that health status can impair day-to-day work performance (e.g., presenteeism) and have a negative effect on job output and quality.[15] Current recommendations for employers are not only to help its unhealthy population become healthy but also to keep its healthy population from becoming sick. Employers are encouraged to implement population-based programs including health risk appraisals and health screenings in conjunction with targeted interventions.[9]
However, a large and growing body of research shows that workplace wellness has far more deleterious effects on employee health than benefits, and that there are no savings whatsoever.[6] Indeed, the most recent winner of the industry's award for the best program admitted to violating clinical guidelines and fabricating outcomes improvement.[16]
Investing in worksite wellness programs not only aims to improve organizational productivity and presenteeism, but also offers a variety of benefits associated with cost savings and resource availability. A study performed by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) indicated that wellness programs saved organizations an estimated $250 million on health care costs between 2002 and 2008. Workplace wellness interventions performed on high-risk cardiovascular disease employees indicated that at the end of a six-month trial, 57% were reduced to a low-risk status. These individuals received not only cardiac rehabilitation health education but exercise training as well.[17] Further, studies performed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and J&J have revealed that organizations that incorporated exercise components into their wellness programs not only decreased healthcare costs by 30% but improved lost work days by 80%.[17] Thus, investing in preventative health practices has proven to not only be more cost effective in resource spending but in improving employee contributions towards high-cost health claims.
Researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studied strategies to prevent cardiovascular disease and found that over a two- to five-year period, companies with comprehensive workplace wellness programs and appropriate health plans in place can yield $3 to $6 for each dollar invested and reduced the likelihood of employee heart attacks and strokes.[18] Also, a 2011 report by Health Fairs Direct which analyzed over 50 studies related to corporate and employee wellness, showed that the return on investment on specific wellness related programs ranged between $1.17 to $6.04.[19] In general, it is estimated that worksite health promotion programs result in a benefit-to-cost ratio of $3.48 in reduced health care costs and $5.82 in lower absenteeism costs per dollar invested, according to the Missouri Department of Health & Senior Services.[20] Additionally, worksite health programs can improve productivity, increase employee satisfaction, demonstrate concern for employees, and improve morale in the workplace.[21]
Leadership involvement in wellness programs can additionally impact employee health outcomes just as well as the programs themselves. A study performed by David Chenoweth indicated the managers who were passionate and committed about their wellness programs increased employee engagement by 60%, even if their wellness goals were not achieved. Leaders are not only tasked with creating the organizational culture but also in coaching and motivating employees to be engaged in that culture.[22]
However, it turns out that employees generally detest these intrusive programs, and wellness's "Net Promoter Score" of -52 places it last on the list of all industries in user satisfaction.[23]

Barriers[edit]
The major barrier to further implementation of these programs is the increasing realization that they fail to produce benefits and may harm employees.[6] Savings are so elusive that a $3 million reward is offered for anyone who can find any.[24] In 2018, the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) found no positive impact.[25] Also in 2018, Medicare found no savings.[26] Further, the NBER study concluded that the previous estimates of savings were largely invalid, due to a pervasive error in study design.[27]
Low participation rates by employees could significantly limit the potential benefits of participating in workplace wellness programs, as could systematically differences between participants and non-participants. Research performed by Gallup indicated that out of the 60% of employees who were aware of their company offered a wellness program only 40% participated.[28]  Ongoing management support and accountability are critical to successful worksite health promotion programs.[28]

Framework[edit]
Workplace wellness programs can be categorized as primary, secondary, or tertiary prevention efforts, or incorporate elements from multiple types.[29] Primary prevention programs usually target an employee population which is already considered healthy and encourages workers to more frequently engage in health behaviors that will encourage ongoing good health (such as stress management, exercise and healthy eating). Secondary prevention programs are intended to reduce behavior which is considered a risk factor for poor health (such as smoking cessation programs and screenings for high blood pressure). Tertiary health programs are designed to address existing health problems (for example, by encouraging employees to better adhere to specific medication or self-managed care guidelines).
Worksite wellness programs including nutrition and physical activity components may occur separately or as part of a comprehensive worksite health promotion program addressing a broader range of objectives such as smoking cessation, stress management, and weight loss. A conceptual model has been developed by the Task Force for Community Preventive Services (The Community Guide) and serves as an analytic framework for workplace wellness and depicts the components of such comprehensive programs.[30] These components include worksite interventions including 1) environmental changes and policy strategies, 2) informational messages, and 3) behavioral and social skills or approaches.
Worksite environmental change and policy strategies are designed to make healthy choices easier. They target the whole workforce rather than individuals by modifying physical or organizational structures. Examples of environmental changes may include enabling access to healthy foods (e.g., through modification of cafeteria offerings or vending machine content) or enhancing opportunities to engage in physical activity (e.g., by providing onsite facilities for exercise). Policy strategies may involve changing rules and procedures for employees, such as offering health insurance benefits, reimbursement for health club memberships, healthy food and beverage policies or allowing time for breaks or meals at the worksite.
Informational and educational strategies attempt to build the knowledge base necessary to inform optimal health practices. Information and learning experiences facilitate voluntary adaptations of behavior conducive to health. Examples include health-related information provided on the company intranet, posters or pamphlets, nutrition education software, and information about the benefits of a healthy lifestyle, including diet and exercise. Behavioral and social strategies attempt to influence behaviors indirectly by targeting individual cognition (awareness, self-efficacy, perceived support, intentions) believed to mediate behavior changes. These strategies can include structuring the leadership involvement and social environment to provide support for people trying to initiate or maintain lifestyle behavior changes, for example, weight change. Such interventions may involve individual or group behavioral counselling, skill-building activities such as cue control, use of rewards or reinforcement, and inclusion of coworker, manager/leader or family members for support.[31]

Health economics of workplace wellness programs[edit]
Wellness programs are typically employer sponsored and are created with the theory that they will encourage healthy behaviors and decrease overall health costs over time.[32] Wellness programs function as Primary Care interventions as they are an example of primary prevention methods to reduce risks to many diseases or conditions.[33] These programs are widely known as employee assistance programs or EAPs and include various physical and mental health services to employees.
Workplace wellness programs have been around since the 1970s[34] and have gained new popularity as the push for cost savings in the health delivery system becomes more evident as a result of high health care expenditures in the U.S. Employer wellness programs have shown to have a return on investment of about $3 for every $1 invested over a multi-year period,[35] making them appealing to many as an effective way to achieve results and control costs. Most recently, the 2016 winner of the "best wellness program" award, Wellsteps, was shown to have harmed employees at the Boise School District and fabricated its savings figures.[36]
Workplace wellness programs have many components to help improve health outcomes and decrease health disparities. These components include smoking cessation programs, fitness center memberships, nutrition aids, and biometric screenings, often in exchange for health insurance premium reductions.[37] The benefits of wellness programs are not limited to corporations and their employees; Otenyo and Smith argue that engaging in such programs produces positive spillover effects for society that are not reflected in markets, leading to them under consumption.[38]

Owing to their positive spillover effects on society, the social marginal benefits of wellness programs are higher than their private marginal benefits, leading to their under consumption.
Workplace wellness programs benefit employers as well; while the various components of the wellness programs helps to keep employees healthy, employers are able to increase recruitment and retention of workers.[39] Some employers have also utilized penalties to improve employee participation within the company wellness program.[40] Wellness programs can reduce employer costs by linking employees' health insurance rates to their participation and success in meeting wellness goals.[41] While wellness programs promote healthier lifestyles and can bring significant cost savings, concerns about invasion of privacy and participation costs have arisen.[42]
The future of wellness programs as a valid method of preventative healthcare is still up for debate. Evidence of improved health outcomes for participants is mixed in terms of effectiveness.[37] Some studies attempt to address the question if "more is always better in the workplace," and the value that can be found through wellness program components and their outcomes.
One large study though, did not find health improvements for premium incentive-based workplace weight loss programs.[43]
Writing in the New York Times, Frank and Carroll laid out several concerns with wellness programs, including limitations in empirical studies and the possibility that employers use these programs to shift costs to employees.[44] That said, the 2019 Kaiser Family Foundation Employer Health Benefits Survey indicates that organizations continue to enact such programs due to their perceived benefits for employee health, morale, and productivity.[45]
Wellness programs have created a $6 billion industry due to its reputation of reducing health care costs. In their 2013 Workplace Wellness Programs Study, RAND Corporation researchers concluded that while lifestyle-focused wellness programs can reduce risk factors and motivate healthy behavior, the reductions in healthcare costs are less than previously reported. However, most wellness studies that report the positive results of the wellness programs are not of high quality, indicate only short-term results, and do not justify causation.[46] Moreover, these studies are sponsored by their own wellness industry, creating bias. Other studies find that the programs don't improve health outcomes or reduce health care costs.
In fact, a decrease of employers' health care costs has been simply passed on the employees. Based on the Affordable Care Act, employers are able to charge unhealthy employees up to 30 to 50 percent more of total premium costs. This has resulted in pushback from employees who have not met mandated health goals like quitting smoking or reducing body mass index (BMI).[47]
On the other hand, research on the 2003 PepsiCo Healthy Living program suggests that the wellness plan helps reduce health care costs after the third year of implementing the disease management components of the program.[48] But, the wellness program does not show evidence of lower costs due to the lifestyle changes in the short run. This result is consistent with the one-year study with the 3,300 employees of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2016.[11] The study indicates that participation in a wellness program does not result in healthier employees or reduced health care costs.[49] The research also shows that without an incentive, about 46.9 percent participated in the wellness program. Then, the change in monetary incentive from $0 to $100 increases participation by 12 percent, from 46.9 percent to 58.5 percent. An additional incentive of $200 increases the participation from 58.5 to 62.5 percent. This study shows that when the company increases participants by only 4.5 percent or reduce 4.5 percent of non-participants or high medical spending employees, it will compensate the total cost of the specific wellness program. This result is consistent with other studies that the wellness programs do not help lower health care costs, but only have passed on the costs to other employees. Regarding the employment and productivity, the participants believe that management places an importance on health, fitness, and safety. However, the study shows no significant difference on the happier feelings or more productive at work among the participants.

Affordable Care Act and effects on workplace wellness[edit]
There are conversations surrounding the role of the Affordable Care Act and in general insurance on its effects on workplace wellness. Sixty percent of Americans obtain their insurance coverage solely in their respective workspaces.[50]  However, larger companies are more inclined to offer employee health insurance and wellness programs than those in small businesses. It is critical for workplace wellness to have increase participation, provisions under insurance coverage for small employers to increase incentives expands participation for small businesses.[51] The Affordable Care Act (ACA) includes the Prevention and Public Health Fund whereby provisions are created to address and expand community prevention, public health infrastructure and training, clinical prevention, and workforce wellness research in the large American working demographic.[50]
The role of the ACA increases programs for worksite wellness is a strategy to tackle the growing rate of chronic diseases in the United States.[50] In a study by the CDC, the implementation of worksite wellness incurs a three-time investment over a dollar spent and have been reported positively by companies such as Johnson & Johnson, Citibank, Duke University, Chevron etc.[50]
Included in the Affordable Care Act are chronic diseases management to be offered in the essential health benefits.[52] As workers age, health care costs and chronic diseases such as depression, anxiety and diabetes are proportional to its growing increase.[50] Owing to this increase, the negative effect on workplace productivity and presentism is declining. ACA implements these management benefits to reduce the declining and negative effects.[52]
In the CDC study on workplace wellness and ACA, the solution resolves to health culture and its strength in workplaces given that only 26% reported that their employees have strong culture of health in their organizations.[50] In 2014, it was found that the Affordable Care Act expands incentive limit by 10 percent.[52] Implementing incentives such as discounts that puts value in health choices and behavior illustrated a 73% positive feedback.[50] In addition, increasing tax on sugar-sweetened drinks, would decrease obesity levels in US adults by 3.5%.[50] The study then concluded towards preventative practices and reform promotes health and quality on workers and increasing productivity.[50] Included with ACA's incentive plan is a non-discriminatory law or HIPAA to requiring availability to alternative wellness programs if need be.[52]
The Affordable Care Act has importance in contextualizing health care promotions in the workplace. The Affordable Care Act, in its revisions and improvements not only persuades workspaces both low and high wage industries to implement health care promotion. Small employers often are underrepresented in the surveys and data for ACA, low wage industries in the past have been underrepresented under the Affordable Care Act, however, with improvements in representation to cover both low and high earning workers, more participation can be seen in workplace wellness.[51]
According to research by Hoffman and Kennedy-Armbruster (2015) in the American College of Sports Medicine Health & Fitness Journal, the top nine workplace/worksite wellness best practices include:

Leadership support (i.e., modeling, resource allocation, etc.)
Relevant and personalized programs (using employee interests and available aggregate data)
Partnership with employees, employer, organizations, and local community.
Comprehensive and evidence-based programs (using eight dimensions of wellness can be a helpful tool- emotional, environmental, financial, intellectual, occupational, physical, social, and spiritual[53])
Implementation that is well planned, coordinated, fully executed, and evaluated for success and accountability
Employee engagement through organization and planning wellness efforts
Formal and comprehensive communication strategies/plan
Data driven decisions that include measurement, evaluation, reporting, and analytics
HIPAA compliant programs."[54]
Importance of leadership support[edit]
Lawrence et al. (2015) indicates strengths and weakness of current worksite wellness models providing key considerations for the development of a strong program. Key strengths indicated were "leadership commitment, organizational culture and environmental structure" to build a culture of health, ultimately promoting the improvement among non-communicable diseases.[55] Furthermore, Lawrence et al. (2015) suggest that these characteristics are indicative of a "high-quality program regardless of the model used: 1) leadership support, 2) clear importance of health and wellness by organization culture and environment, 3) program responsiveness to changing needs, 4) utilization of current technology, and 5) support from community health programs".[55]
A recent survey conducted by Harris Poll and reported the American Psychological Association (APA) (2016) stated just over 30% of Americans indicate participation in worksite wellness programs, and 44% indicate that employee wellness is supported by their workplace culture.[56] Furthermore, this data indicates when senior leaders are involved and committed to wellness program initiatives 73% of employees feel their organization supports a healthy lifestyle and their overall well-being; however, only 4 of 10 Americans said that their leadership team supports wellness initiatives.[56] Further evidence reported by RAND (2013) stated "evidence from case studies suggests that for programs to be a success, senior managers need to consider wellness an organizational priority to shift the company culture. Buy-in from direct supervisors is crucial to generate excitement and connect employees to available resources."
Furthermore, Hoert, Herd, and Hambrick (2016) used the Leading by Example instrument to find "employees experiencing higher levels of leadership support reported higher wellness program participation, lower stress, and higher levels of health behaviors".[57] Stokes, Henley and Herget (2006) reported on findings from a wellness initiative pilot program using the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. This organization was selected as the pilot due to the leadership support model and its large size.[58] This program focused on "reducing major chronic diseases (including cardiovascular diseases), demonstrating the effectiveness of a wellness program model that includes a full-time department-level director, establish wellness committees to sustain work environments that promote and support employee health and wellness, and change policies and environments to help employees be more active, make healthier food choices, avoid tobacco, and manage stress".[58] Results after the first year of this program indicated that 62% of employees participated in at least one wellness activity, 51% exercising more often, 50% stating wellness programs as the most popular activity, 49% eating more fruits and vegetables, 27% were closer to a healthy weight, and 106 employees stopped smoking and 149 reduced tobacco use.[58]
Finally, Ross et al. (2013) report the increased importance of physical activity at the workplace with the increasing sedentary job responsibilities, and the positive effect of worksite physical activity programs have on health outcomes, including cardiovascular disease and metabolic conditions.[59] Additionally, their research indicates appropriate models for these successes are through "a health and wellness culture driven by leadership support, specialized programs designed for the employee population, and strategic plans that partner with current organizational goals".[59]

Program development and best practices example[edit]
Example[edit]
The framework of The Community Guide, program components (goals and objectives) set out by Health People 2020, the Workplace Health Model outlined by the CDC, and other best practices provides a comprehensive foundation for a worksite wellness platform regarding program development, implementation, and evaluation. Using the components above, an employee (or employer) can use employee interest, employee aggregate health data, and the LHIs as priorities to guide goals and objectives, develop programs and evaluation to facilitate, collaborate, and motivate their employees to improve their health. The following example will use the above-mentioned workplace wellness program components as it relates to the goal of weight reduction by increased physical activity through leadership support in order to decrease cardiovascular disease, ultimately impacting the Healthy People 2020 LHI "Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity".[60]  The following is a simplified example for (a fabricated) Company ABC:

Assessment[edit]
An employee (or Company ABC Human Resource Department) reviews the current aggregate data provided by the employer insurance company as it relates to weight, physical activity, and cardiovascular measures, including cholesterol, blood pressure, biometric screening, physical activity, smoking, or other indicators. Company ABC will review the available company culture survey results as it relates to wellness for both social and environmental supports.  Conversations and focus groups will be established to assess and determine employee engagement, interests, concerns, and other wellness related brainstorming.

Implementation[edit]
Using The Community Guide, Health People 2020, CDC recommendations, and other peer-reviewed research (evidence-based programs) an organization can design and implement recommended intervention, policies, programs, or environmental supports to ensure the success of the desired goals and outcomes. Based on the CDC's recommendation to include a multidimensional intervention framework,[61] the wellness coordinator for Company ABC has decided on the following programs to support the goals of physical activity through leadership support to help improve cardiovascular health.

Promoting leadership success stories on with physical activity and movement through the organization's monthly newsletter
Marketing with leadership photos inviting participants to come to the planned event
Revised smoking and smokeless tobacco policy which will be enforced by leadership support[62]
Health coaches for increase physical activity, nutritional changes, and tobacco cessation, including quit kits and available pharmaceuticals in the onsite wellness clinic[62]
Promotion of health insurance health coaches for physical activity and nutrition through telephonic support[63]
Quarterly health education lunch and learn on cardiovascular health topics (cholesterol, heart disease, metabolic disease, etc.) as it relates to physical activity (including nutrition)[62]
Implementation of recommended (informal) policy for walking meetings, especially led by senior leadership and managers
Implement point-of-decision prompts to use the stairs[64]
Physical activity challenge led by leaders at Company ABC[65]
Free and onsite health risk assessment and blood draw events for employees, spouses and dependents[62]
Onsite blood pressure cuffs for blood pressure self-monitoring[62]
Evaluation[edit]
Utilizing past aggregate data from health insurance claims and company culture survey from Company ABC a baseline will be established prior to the program implementation. Following the wellness coordinators strategic plan for Company ABC, measures post-program (1 year) will be collected,  including an employee satisfaction survey, informal forums, a collection of corresponding year aggregate data from the insurance company and data from the annual culture survey.[66] Data analysis will be conducted on program successes, strengths, opportunities, threats, and weakness; furthermore, interpretation of results will be collected and reported back to the leadership team for review and support for the next year's strategic planning. Additional comparisons can be made to the Healthy People 2020 LHI's Report Card to determine how the employees of Company ABC are doing in comparison to the reported United States data, as well as how they are supporting the overall goals of the Healthy People 2020 goals.[67]

Impact[edit]
A meta-analysis of the literature on costs and savings associated with wellness programs, medical costs fell by about $3.27 for every dollar spent on wellness programs and absenteeism costs fell by about $2.73 for every dollar spent.[68] A 2019 study in the journal JAMA found that a workplace wellness program at BJ's Wholesale Club had a very limited impact. The study found no impact on health measures or health care costs, but participants in the study did report that they became more knowledgeable about health behaviors.[69][70]
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducted a case study of a workplace wellness program at Capital Metro, the local transit authority in Austin, TX.[71] The study found that there was a reduction in costs associated with employee health care and absenteeism after the workplace welfare program was implemented.[71] In one large study of 1,542 participants across 119 workplaces, 57.7% of participants showed significant reductions in 7 of the 10 cardiovascular health risk categories studied.[72] Johnson & Johnson, one of the world's largest companies, has saved $250 million on health care costs within the last decade as a result of wellness programs; from 2002 to 2008, the return was $2.71 for every dollar spent.[17]

Artificial Intelligence and Workplace Wellness[edit]
The rapid proliferation of artificial intelligence (AI) systems into the modern workplace has ignited a wide-ranging discourse concerning the potential implications for employee well-being.[73] As these sophisticated technologies become increasingly integrated into organizational processes and workflows, valid apprehensions have arisen regarding the potential erosion of job security, autonomy, privacy, and ethical decision-making.[74] In light of the expanding influence of artificial intelligence (AI) across various industries, a recent survey by Ernst & Young LLP reveals that 71% of US employees harbor apprehensions about its implications. The study discloses that 48% of respondents express heightened concerns about AI compared to a year ago, with 41% attributing their unease to the perceived rapid evolution of AI technology. Moreover, 75% of employees fear that AI may render certain jobs obsolete, and 65% are uneasy about the prospect of AI replacing their roles.[75] Concurrently, proponents highlight the myriad opportunities AI affords to enhance workplace wellness through task automation, human-machine collaboration, personalized well-being support which includes corporate wellness retreats, and fostering inclusivity.[76] This piece aims to critically examine both the challenges and potential benefits of AI integration concerning employee welfare, and propose recommendations for a responsible and ethically grounded approach to harnessing this transformative technology.
The advent of artificial intelligence in the modern workplace undoubtedly introduces a multitude of challenges and opportunities concerning employee well-being. While valid concerns exist regarding job insecurity, erosion of autonomy, privacy violations, and the perpetuation of biases, AI systems also hold immense potential to enhance workplace wellness through task automation, human-machine collaboration, personalized well-being support, and fostering inclusivity. However, realizing these benefits while mitigating the risks necessitates a responsible, ethically grounded, and human-centric approach to AI integration.
By prioritizing transparent communication, robust training and skill development initiatives, ethical AI governance and oversight, human-centered design principles, and interdisciplinary collaboration, organizations can navigate this complex landscape effectively. Ultimately, the impact of AI on workplace wellness will be shaped by the choices and actions taken by organizational leaders and their commitment to leveraging these transformative technologies in a manner that genuinely supports, empowers, and promotes the holistic well-being of their workforce.

Challenges to Workplace Wellness Posed by AI Implementation[edit]
Job Insecurity and Occupational Stress
One of the primary concerns encompassing AI's encroachment into the workplace sphere is the fear of technological unemployment. As AI systems become increasingly adept at performing tasks traditionally conducted by human labor, trepidations surrounding potential job displacement have intensified.[77] This perceived job insecurity can precipitate heightened stress levels, anxiety, and an overarching sense of precariousness among the workforce.[78] Prolonged exposure to such occupational stressors has been empirically linked to adverse physical and psychological health outcomes, including burnout, depression, and cardiovascular disease.[79] In advanced economies, about 60 percent of jobs may be impacted by AI.[80] Roughly half the exposed jobs may benefit from AI integration, enhancing productivity and for the other half, AI applications may execute key tasks currently performed by humans, which could lower labor demand, leading to lower wages and reduced hiring.[80] In the most extreme cases, some of these jobs may disappear.[80] In 2022, 19% of American workers were in jobs that are the most exposed to AI, in which the most important activities may be either replaced or assisted by AI.[81]
Erosion of Autonomy and Self-Determination
A further challenge posed by the integration of AI systems is the potential diminution of human autonomy and self-determination within the workplace.[82] As these technologies assume an increasing array of decision-making responsibilities and automate intricate processes, employees may experience a concomitant reduction in their perceived sense of control and agency over their professional roles.[82] This deprivation of autonomy can detrimentally impact job satisfaction, engagement, and overall eudaimonia well-being, as humans inherently thrive when imbued with a sense of volition and self-directedness.[82]
Privacy Concerns and Workplace Surveillance
The deployment of AI in workplace contexts often necessitates the collection and analysis of vast troves of employee data to train and optimize these systems.[83] This data could potentially be leveraged for continuous performance monitoring, productivity tracking, and even predictive modeling of employee behavior and prospective tenure.[84] While such practices may ostensibly aim to enhance operational efficiency, they raise significant ethical concerns regarding privacy rights and could engender an environment of pervasive surveillance and mistrust, undermining psychological safety and well-being.[74]
Perpetuation of Bias and Discrimination
Despite their computational sophistication, AI systems are not immune to the insidious biases and flaws inherent in the data they are trained upon or the algorithms they employ.[85] In the absence of rigorous ethical oversight and debiasing protocols, AI applications in the workplace run the risk of perpetuating or even amplifying existing societal biases related to protected characteristics such as gender, race, age, or disability status.[86] This could precipitate unfair treatment, discriminatory practices, and a hostile work environment for affected employees, adversely impacting their psychological and emotional welfare.[87]

Potential Benefits of AI for Cultivating Workplace Wellness[edit]
Automation of Tedious and Physically Arduous Tasks
Despite the concerns surrounding occupational displacement, the judicious implementation of AI systems also presents opportunities to alleviate the burden of physically and cognitively tedious tasks on human workers. By automating these repetitive, monotonous processes, AI can effectively reduce the mental and physical strain experienced by employees, mitigating risks of burnout, musculoskeletal disorders, and psychological distress.[88] This could enable employees to reallocate their efforts towards more engaging, stimulating, and fulfilling aspects of their roles, potentially enhancing job satisfaction and overall well-being.[88]
Human-Machine Collaboration and Capability Augmentation
Rather than conceptualizing AI as a replacement for human labor, an alternative paradigm envisions a symbiotic relationship wherein these technologies augment and enhance human capabilities.[89] AI systems can function as intelligent virtual assistants, providing real-time insights, analysis, and data-driven recommendations to support complex decision-making processes.[84] This collaboration between humans and AI could effectively reduce cognitive load, improve productivity, and foster a more efficient and rewarding work experience for employees.[89]
Personalized Employee Well-being Support
AI can also be leveraged to directly support and promote employee well-being initiatives within organizations. AI-powered applications could facilitate personalized well-being assessments, tailoring recommendations for stress management techniques, mindfulness practices, or lifestyle interventions based on individual needs and preferences.[90] Furthermore, conversational AI agents could potentially provide virtual coaching or counseling services, offering a more accessible and scalable approach to mental health support.[91] By harnessing the vast computational power and data processing capabilities of AI, organizations can offer highly customized and effective well-being resources to their employees, promoting better mental and physical health outcomes.[91]
Fostering Inclusion, Accessibility, and Workplace Belongingness
AI technologies also hold significant promise in fostering more inclusive, accessible, and supportive workplace environments. For instance, AI-driven language translation and transcription services can facilitate seamless communication and collaboration among employees with diverse linguistic backgrounds, mitigating barriers to participation and fostering a sense of belongingness.[92] Additionally, AI-powered assistive technologies can aid employees with disabilities in performing their roles more effectively, enabling greater autonomy, productivity, and full participation in the workplace.[82] By leveraging AI to create more equitable and accommodating workspaces, organizations can cultivate a culture of inclusivity, enhancing overall employee well-being and organizational commitment.
The global artificial intelligence market size was valued at US$196.63 billion in 2023 and is projected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 37.3% from 2023 to 2030.[93] This growth has been driven in part by the immense cost savings and productivity gains AI can offer businesses. AI applications in workplaces are estimated to save over 300 billion hours of worker productivity annually. China has emerged as a global leader in AI implementation, on research, for example, China produced about one-third of both AI journal papers and AI citations worldwide in 2021. In economic investment, China accounted for nearly one-fifth of global private investment funding in 2021, attracting $17 billion for AI start-ups.[94]
Recommendations for Responsible AI Integration and Ethical Governance
To effectively navigate the intricate landscape of AI's impact on workplace wellness, and mitigate potential challenges while capitalizing on the opportunities, organizations must adopt a responsible, ethically grounded, and human-centric approach to AI integration. The following recommendations provide a framework for achieving this objective:
Transparent Communication and Employee Involvement
Fostering an environment of open communication and actively involving employees in the decision-making processes surrounding AI implementation is paramount.[84] Organizations should prioritize transparent dissemination of information regarding the intended purposes, functionalities, and anticipated impacts of AI systems on work processes and employee roles. Furthermore, providing avenues for employee feedback, concerns, and active participation in shaping AI integration strategies can help alleviate fears, build trust, and ensure that these technologies are deployed in a manner that genuinely supports employee well-being.[78]
Robust Training, Upskilling, and Professional Development
To address concerns surrounding job displacement and the evolving skill requirements precipitated by AI adoption, organizations must invest in comprehensive training, upskilling, and professional development initiatives for their workforce.[78] By equipping employees with the requisite technical competencies and cognitive capabilities to effectively collaborate with AI systems, organizations can foster a sense of adaptability, resilience, and future-proof their human capital. This proactive approach to skill development not only enhances workforce preparedness but can also mitigate job insecurity and promote a growth mindset among employees.[95]
Ethical AI Governance, Oversight, and Algorithmic Auditing
Establishing a robust ethical governance framework and rigorous oversight mechanisms for the development, deployment, and continuous monitoring of AI systems within the workplace is a crucial imperative.[85] This includes conducting thorough assessments to identify and mitigate potential biases in AI algorithms and training data, implementing strict data privacy and security protocols, and ensuring that AI decision-making processes are transparent, explainable, and subject to human oversight and accountability measures.[85] Independent external audits, algorithmic impact assessments, and regular ethical reviews can further strengthen governance and ensure compliance with established principles and industry best practices.[74]
Human-Centered Design and Preserving Employee Agency
Throughout the AI integration process, organizations should prioritize a human-centered design philosophy that places the needs, preferences, and well-being of employees at the forefront. This involves actively soliciting and incorporating user feedback, ensuring intuitive and accessible human-machine interfaces, and empowering employees to maintain agency, control, and decision-making autonomy over their work processes.[84] By adopting a human-centered approach, organizations can effectively mitigate concerns regarding the erosion of autonomy and foster a sense of empowerment, enhancing job satisfaction and overall eudemonic well-being.
Interdisciplinary Collaboration and Stakeholder Engagement
Navigating the complex interplay between AI, workplace dynamics, and employee well-being necessitates a multidisciplinary approach that transcends traditional organizational silos.[83] Organizations should actively foster collaboration among diverse stakeholders, including technologists, human resource professionals, legal and ethical experts, occupational health specialists, and employee representatives. This interdisciplinary collaboration can yield holistic perspectives, identify potential blind spots, and inform comprehensive strategies that harmonize technological innovation with a genuine commitment to employee welfare.[83]

See also[edit]

Booster Breaks
Employee assistance programs
Employee benefit
Health fair
Managed care
Obesity
Occupational cardiovascular disease
Organisation climate
Organizational culture
Participatory ergonomics
Philosophy of happiness
Pre-work assembly
Presenteeism
Sick building syndrome
Total Worker Health
Work–life balance
Workplace health promotion
Workplace stress

References[edit]


^ "Wellness and Health Promotion Programs Use Financial Incentives To Motivate Employees". Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. 2014-01-15. Retrieved 2014-01-20.

^ Hull, Gordon; Pasquale, Frank (2018-03-01). "Toward a critical theory of corporate wellness". BioSocieties. 13 (1): 190–212. doi:10.1057/s41292-017-0064-1. ISSN 1745-8560. S2CID 148579184.

^ Song, Zirui; Baicker, Katherine (2019-04-16). "Effect of a Workplace Wellness Program on Employee Health and Economic Outcomes: A Randomized Clinical Trial". JAMA. 321 (15): 1491–1501. doi:10.1001/jama.2019.3307. ISSN 0098-7484. PMC 6484807. PMID 30990549.

^ Jones, Damon; Molitor, David; Reif, Julian (2019-11-01). "What do Workplace Wellness Programs do? Evidence from the Illinois Workplace Wellness Study*". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 134 (4): 1747–1791. doi:10.1093/qje/qjz023. ISSN 0033-5533. PMC 6756192. PMID 31564754.

^ DUNN H. L. (1959). High-level wellness for man and society. American journal of public health and the nation's health, 49(6), 786–792. https://doi.org/10.2105/ajph.49.6.786

^ a b c Lewis, Al (1 January 2017). "The Outcomes, Economics, and Ethics of the Workplace Wellness Industry". Health Matrix: The Journal of Law-Medicine. 27 (1): 1.

^ Kaiser Family Foundation/Health Research Education Trust. (2007). Employer Health Benefits Survey.

^ Kaiser Family Foundation/Health Research Education Trust. (2007).  Employer Health Benefits Survey Exhibit 6.18

^ a b Healthy Workforce 2010 and Beyond. (2009). Partnership for Prevention. Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits Division: U.S. Chamber of  Commerce.

^ Knapper, Joseph T.; Ghasemzadeh, Nima; Khayata, Mohamed; Patel, Sulay P.; Quyyumi, Arshed A.; Mensah, George A.; Tabuert, Kathryn (2015). "Time to Change Our Focus : Defining, Promoting, and Impacting Cardiovascular Population Health". Journal of the American College of Cardiology. 66 (14): 1641–655. doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.07.008. PMID 26293767.

^ a b Jones, Damon; Molitor, David; Reif, Julian (January 2018). "What Do Workplace Wellness Programs Do? Evidence from the Illinois Workplace Wellness Study". NBER Working Paper No. 24229. doi:10.3386/w24229.

^ a b "East Carolina University" (PDF). www.ecu.edu.

^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2010-12-06. Retrieved 2010-10-10.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-05-11. Retrieved 2010-10-10.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ a b Healthy Workforce 2010 and Beyond. (2009). Partnership for Prevention. Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits Division: U.S. Chamber of  Commerce

^ "Wellness award goes to workplace where many measures got worse". STAT. 2016-09-27. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ a b c Berry, Leonard; Mirabito, Ann M.; Baun, William (December 2010). "What's the Hard Return on Employee Wellness Programs?". Harvard Business Review. SSRN 2064874.

^ Reducing the Risk of Heart Disease and Stroke, Centers for Disease Control.

^ "Abenity - Corporate perks and discount programs for employee, member, and alumni groups". www.abenity.com.

^ Health Promotion Worksite Initiative, Missouri Department of Health & Senior Services.

^ Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise: The Fundamentals of Workplace Health Promotion. Wellness Council of America.

^ Chenoweth. "Promoting employee well-being" (PDF).

^ "Quiz: Which industry has the worst Net Promoter Score? (SPOILER ALERT: It's wellness.)". They Said What?. 2018-01-21. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ "The reward for showing your wellness program works is now $3 million!". They Said What?. 2017-12-09. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ "Study Finds Virtually Zero Benefit From Workplace Wellness Program In 1st Year". www.wbur.org. 26 January 2018. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ "Wellness programs aren't generating Medicare savings". Modern Healthcare. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ "NBER's Invalidation of Wellness: Behind the Headlines". AJMC. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ a b O'Boyle. "Why your workplace wellness program isn't working". Gallup.com.

^ Goetzel, R.Z., Ozminkowski, R.J. The health and cost benefits of work site health-promotion programs. Annual Review of Public Health. 2008;29:303-323

^ Anderson, Laurie M.; et al. (2009). "The Effectiveness of Worksite Nutrition and Physical Activity Interventions for Controlling Employee Overweight and Obesity". American Journal of Preventive Medicine. 37 (4): 340–357. doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2009.07.003. PMID 19765507.

^ Anderson, Laurie M.; Quinn, Toby A.; Glanz, Karen; Ramirez, Gilbert; Kahwati, Leila C.; Johnson, Donna B.; Buchanan, Leigh Ramsey; Archer, W. Roodly; Chattopadhyay, Sajal; Kalra, Geetika P.; Katz, David L. (October 2009). "The Effectiveness of Worksite Nutrition and Physical Activity Interventions for Controlling Employee Overweight and Obesity". American Journal of Preventive Medicine. 37 (4): 340–357. doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2009.07.003. PMID 19765507.

^ "Workplace Wellness" (PDF).

^ Anderko, Laura; Roffenbender, Jason S.; Goetzel, Ron Z.; Howard, John; Millard, Francois; Wildenhaus, Kevin; DeSantis, Charles; Novelli, William (13 December 2012). "Promoting Prevention Through the Affordable Care Act: Workplace Wellness". Preventing Chronic Disease. 9: 120092. doi:10.5888/pcd9.120092. PMC 3523891. PMID 23237245.

^ "The Evolution of Worksite Wellness". Corporate Wellness Magazine. 2014-01-29. Retrieved 2017-03-24.

^ "Workplace Wellness" (PDF).

^ "Wellness award goes to workplace where many measures got worse". STAT. 2016-09-27. Retrieved 2017-10-30.

^ a b "Workplace Wellness Programs (Updated)". Health Affairs - Health Policy Briefs. Retrieved 2017-03-24.

^ Otenyo, Eric E.; Smith, Earlene A. (2017). "An Overview of Employee Wellness Programs in Large U.S. Cities: Does Geography Matter?". Public Personnel Management. 46 (1): 3–24. doi:10.1177/0091026016689668. S2CID 133541237.

^ "Advantages of Workplace Wellness Programs". SparkPeople. Retrieved 2017-03-24.

^ "Employers use penalties to push workers into wellness programs". Business Insurance. Retrieved 2017-03-24.

^ Lax, Michael B. (May 2016). "The Perils of Integrating Wellness and Safety and Health and the Possibility of a Worker-Oriented Alternative". New Solutions: A Journal of Environmental and Occupational Health Policy. 26 (1): 11–39. Bibcode:2016NewSo..26...11L. doi:10.1177/1048291116629489. ISSN 1048-2911. PMID 26864848.

^ "Privacy Concerns".

^ Caloyeras, John P.; Liu, Hangsheng; Exum, Ellen; Broderick, Megan; Mattke, Soeren (2014). "Managing Manifest Diseases, But Not Health Risks, Saved PepsiCo Money Over Seven Years". Health Affairs. 33 (1): 124–131. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0625. PMID 26733703.

^ Frakt, Austin; Carroll, Aaron E. (11 September 2014). "Do Workplace Wellness Programs Work? Usually Not". The New York Times.

^ Claxton, Gary; Rae, Matthew; Damico, Anthony; Gregory, Young; McDermott, Daniel; Whitmore, Heidi (2019). 2019 Employer Health Benefits Survey. Kaiser Family Foundation.

^ Mattke, Soeren; Liu, Hangsheng; Caloyeras, John; Huang, Christina; Van Busum, Kristin; Khodyakov, Dmitry; Shier, Victoria (2013). "Workplace Wellness Programs Study". RAND Corporation.

^ Frakt, Austin; Carroll, Aaron E. (16 September 2013). "The Feel-Good Promise of Wellness Programs". Bloomberg Opinion.

^ Patel, Mitesh S.; Asch, David A.; Troxel, Andrea B.; Fletcher, Michele; Osman-Koss, Rosemary; Brady, Jennifer; Wesby, Lisa; Hilbert, Victoria; Zhu, Jingsan; Wang, Wenli; Volpp, Kevin G. (January 2016). "Premium-Based Financial Incentives Did Not Promote Workplace Weight Loss In A 2013–15 Study". Health Affairs. 35 (1): 71–79. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0945. PMID 26733703.

^ Greenfield, Rebecca (4 February 2018). "Workplace wellness programs aren't working, new research finds". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 2018-03-05.

^ a b c d e f g h i Anderko, Laura (2012). "Promoting Prevention Through the Affordable Care Act: Workplace Wellness". Preventing Chronic Disease. 9: E175. doi:10.5888/pcd9.120092. ISSN 1545-1151. PMC 3523891. PMID 23237245.

^ a b Hall, Jennifer L.; Kelly, Kevin M.; Burmeister, Leon F.; Merchant, James A. (2017-09-01). "Workforce Characteristics and Attitudes Regarding Participation in Worksite Wellness Programs". American Journal of Health Promotion. 31 (5): 391–400. doi:10.4278/ajhp.140613-QUAN-283. ISSN 0890-1171. PMID 26730552. S2CID 3472818.

^ a b c d Mattke, Soeren; Liu, Harry H.; Caloyeras, John P.; Huang, Christina Y.; Van Busum, Kristin R.; Khodyakov, Dmitry; Shier, Victoria (2013-05-30). "Workplace Wellness Programs Study: Final Report". Rand Health Quarterly. 3 (2): 7. PMC 4945172. PMID 28083294.

^ "The Eight Dimensions of Wellness". Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. 2016. Retrieved March 20, 2017.

^ Hoffman, L., Kennedy-Armbruster, C. (2015). "Case Study Using Best Practice Design Principles for Worksite Wellness Programs". ACSM's Health & Fitness Journal. 19 (3): 30–35. doi:10.1249/FIT.0000000000000125. S2CID 218305757.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ a b Cahalin, Lawrence P.; Kaminsky, Leonard; Lavie, Carl J.; Briggs, Paige; Cahalin, Brendan L.; Myers, Jonathan; Forman, Daniel E.; Patel, Mahesh J.; Pinkstaff, Sherry O. (2015-07-01). "Development and Implementation of Worksite Health and Wellness Programs: A Focus on Non-Communicable Disease" (PDF). Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases. Preventive Cardiology Update: Controversy, Concensus [sic], and Future Promise. 58 (1): 94–101. doi:10.1016/j.pcad.2015.04.001. PMID 25936908.

^ a b "Workplace Well-being Linked to Senior Leadership Support, New Survey Finds". 2016. Retrieved 2017-03-29.

^ Hoert, Jennifer; Herd, Ann M.; Hambrick, Marion (May 2018). "The Role of Leadership Support for Health Promotion in Employee Wellness Program Participation, Perceived Job Stress, and Health Behaviors". American Journal of Health Promotion. 32 (4): 1054–1061. doi:10.1177/0890117116677798. PMID 27920214. S2CID 4908652.

^ a b c Stokes, George; Henley, Nancy; Herget, Casey (2006). "Creating a Culture of Wellness iN Workplaces". North Carolina Medical Journal. 67 (6): 445–448. doi:10.18043/ncm.67.6.445. PMID 17393709.

^ a b Arena, Ross; Guazzi, Marco; Briggs, Paige D.; Cahalin, Lawrence P.; Myers, Jonathan; Kaminsky, Leonard A.; Forman, Daniel E.; Cipriano, Gerson; Borghi-Silva, Audrey; Babu, Abraham Samuel; Lavie, Carl J. (June 2013). "Promoting Health and Wellness in the Workplace: A Unique Opportunity to Establish Primary and Extended Secondary Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Programs". Mayo Clinic Proceedings. 88 (6): 605–617. doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2013.03.002. PMC 7304414. PMID 23726400. ProQuest 1371443680.

^ "Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity | Healthy People 2020". www.healthypeople.gov. Retrieved 2017-03-20.

^ "Worksite Physical Activity | Physical Activity | CDC". www.cdc.gov. Retrieved 2017-03-20.

^ a b c d e Carnethon, Mercedes; Whitsel, Laurie P.; Franklin, Barry A.; Kris-Etherton, Penny; Milani, Richard; Pratt, Charlotte A.; Wagner, Gregory R. (27 October 2009). "Worksite Wellness Programs for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention: A Policy Statement From the American Heart Association". Circulation. 120 (17): 1725–1741. doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.192653. PMID 19794121. S2CID 11806217.

^ Terry, Paul E.; Seaverson, Erin LD; Staufacker, Michael J.; Tanaka, Akiko (June 2011). "The Effectiveness of a Telephone-Based Tobacco Cessation Program Offered as Part of a Worksite Health Promotion Program". Population Health Management. 14 (3): 117–125. doi:10.1089/pop.2010.0026. PMID 21323463.

^ "Physical Activity: Point-of-Decision Prompts to Encourage Use of Stairs | Healthy People 2020". www.healthypeople.gov. Retrieved 2017-03-29.

^ Fox, Lesley D.; Rejeski, W. Jack; Gauvin, Lise (May 2000). "Effects of Leadership Style and Group Dynamics on Enjoyment of Physical Activity". American Journal of Health Promotion. 14 (5): 277–283. doi:10.4278/0890-1171-14.5.277. PMID 11009853. S2CID 3270114.

^ "Assessment Tools | Workplace Health Resources | Tools and Resources | Workplace Health Promotion | CDC". www.cdc.gov. Retrieved 2017-03-20.

^ "Midcourse Review: LHIs | Healthy People 2020". www.healthypeople.gov. Retrieved 2017-03-20.

^ Baicker, Katherine; Cutler, David; Song, Zirui (February 2010). "Workplace Wellness Programs Can Generate Savings". Health Affairs. 29 (2): 304–311. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0626. PMID 20075081.

^ Song, Zirui; Baicker, Katherine (16 April 2019). "Effect of a Workplace Wellness Program on Employee Health and Economic Outcomes: A Randomized Clinical Trial". JAMA. 321 (15): 1491–1501. doi:10.1001/jama.2019.3307. PMC 6484807. PMID 30990549.

^ Abelson, Reed (16 April 2019). "Employee Wellness Programs Yield Little Benefit, Study Shows". The New York Times.

^ a b "Preventing Chronic Disease: April 2009: 08_0206". www.cdc.gov.

^ Knapper, Joseph T.; Ghasemzadeh, Nima; Khayata, Mohamed; Patel, Sulay P.; Quyyumi, Arshed A.; Mendis, Shanthi; Mensah, George A.; Taubert, Kathryn; Sperling, Laurence S. (August 2015). "Time to Change Our Focus". Journal of the American College of Cardiology. 66 (8): 960–971. doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.07.008. PMID 26293767.

^ Khogali, Hisham O.; Mekid, Samir (May 2023). "The blended future of automation and AI: Examining some long-term societal and ethical impact features". Technology in Society. 73: 102232. doi:10.1016/j.techsoc.2023.102232.

^ a b c Chen, Changye; Chen, Ziyu; Luo, Wenyu; Xu, Ying; Yang, Sixia; Yang, Guozhao; Chen, Xuhong; Chi, Xiaoxia; Xie, Ni; Zeng, Zhuoying (2023-12-01). "Ethical perspective on AI hazards to humans: A review". Medicine. 102 (48): e36163. doi:10.1097/MD.0000000000036163. ISSN 0025-7974. PMC 10695628. PMID 38050218.

^ "Businesses can stop rising AI use from fueling anxiety". www.ey.com. Retrieved 2024-04-04.

^ Sen, Wang; Hong, Zhao; Xiaomei, Zhu (2022-09-07). "Effects of human–machine interaction on employee's learning: A contingent perspective". Frontiers in Psychology. 13. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2022.876933. ISSN 1664-1078. PMC 9490363. PMID 36160504.

^ Bessen, James E. (2015). "How Computer Automation Affects Occupations: Technology, Jobs, and Skills". SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:10.2139/ssrn.2690435. ISSN 1556-5068.

^ a b c Russo, Concetta; Terraneo, Marco (November 2020). "Mental Well-being Among Workers: A Cross-national Analysis of Job Insecurity Impact on the Workforce". Social Indicators Research. 152 (2): 421–442. doi:10.1007/s11205-020-02441-5. hdl:10281/280730. ISSN 0303-8300.

^ Moreno Fortes, Alcides; Tian, Lili; Huebner, E. Scott (2020-05-21). "Occupational Stress and Employees Complete Mental Health: A Cross-Cultural Empirical Study". International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 17 (10): 3629. doi:10.3390/ijerph17103629. ISSN 1660-4601. PMC 7277686. PMID 32455763.

^ a b c Cazzaniga, Mauro (January 2024). "Gen-AI". Staff Discussion Notes. 2024 (1): 1. doi:10.5089/9798400262548.006. ISSN 2617-6750.

^ Kochhar, Rohit; O'Connell, Sarah (2023-08-29). MRI safety and patients with implants (Report). BJUI Knowledge. doi:10.18591/bjuik.0706.

^ a b c d Ernst, Christian (2020), Wischmeyer, Thomas; Rademacher, Timo (eds.), "Artificial Intelligence and Autonomy: Self-Determination in the Age of Automated Systems", Regulating Artificial Intelligence, Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 53–73, doi:10.1007/978-3-030-32361-5_3, ISBN 978-3-030-32360-8, retrieved 2024-03-21

^ a b c Hussain Jalbani, Akhtar (2024-02-08). "Review of: "Education, Artificial Intelligence, and the Digital Age"". Qeios. doi:10.32388/clq1hj.

^ a b c d Marabelli, Marco; Lirio, Pamela (2024-02-23). "AI and the metaverse in the workplace: DEI opportunities and challenges". Personnel Review. 54 (3): 844–853. doi:10.1108/pr-04-2023-0300. ISSN 0048-3486.

^ a b c Aquino, Yves Saint James (2023-07-01). "Making decisions: Bias in artificial intelligence and data‑driven diagnostic tools". Australian Journal of General Practice. 52 (7): 439–442. doi:10.31128/AJGP-12-22-6630. PMID 37423238.

^ Cowgill, Bo; Tucker, Catherine E. (2019). "Economics, Fairness and Algorithmic Bias". SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:10.2139/ssrn.3361280. ISSN 1556-5068.

^ Murphy, Susan E.; Ensher, Ellen A. (2001). "The Role of Mentoring Support and Self-Management Strategies on Reported Career Outcomes". Journal of Career Development. 27 (4): 229–246. doi:10.1023/a:1007866919494 (inactive 11 June 2025). ISSN 0894-8453.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of June 2025 (link)

^ a b "Heinold von Udynski (Udyński), Karl Freiherr". doi:10.1553/0x003b1f5a. Retrieved 2024-03-21. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

^ a b Zohuri, Bahman (2024). "Revolutionizing Education: The Dynamic Synergy of Personalized Learning and Artificial Intelligence". International Journal of Advanced Engineering and Management Research. 09 (1): 143–153. doi:10.51505/ijaemr.2024.9111. ISSN 2456-3676.

^ Bohr, Adam; Memarzadeh, Kaveh (2020), "The rise of artificial intelligence in healthcare applications", Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare, Elsevier: 25–60, doi:10.1016/b978-0-12-818438-7.00002-2, ISBN 978-0-12-818438-7, PMC 7325854

^ a b Gaffney, Hannah; Mansell, Warren; Tai, Sara (2019-10-18). "Conversational Agents in the Treatment of Mental Health Problems: Mixed-Method Systematic Review". JMIR Mental Health. 6 (10): e14166. doi:10.2196/14166. ISSN 2368-7959. PMC 6914342. PMID 31628789.

^ Ko, Leong (2015-06-05). Translation and Cross-Cultural Communication Studies in the Asia Pacific. BRILL. doi:10.1163/9789004299245. ISBN 978-90-04-29924-5.

^ HUANG, DENGXIN (2023-12-27). "Stock Market Analysis". doi:10.21203/rs.3.rs-3789960/v1. Retrieved 2024-04-04. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

^ Zhao, Kai; Mo, Minjie; Shen, Jun (2023). "Pandemics and FDI Inflows: The Role of Infrastructures". doi:10.2139/ssrn.4639888. Retrieved 2024-04-04. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

^ Heinold, Eva; Funk, Miriam; Niehaus, Susanne; Rosen, Patricia H.; Wischniewski, Sascha (2023-10-30). "OSH related risks and opportunities for industrial human-robot interaction: results from literature and practice". Frontiers in Robotics and AI. 10. doi:10.3389/frobt.2023.1277360. ISSN 2296-9144. PMC 10642918. PMID 37965632.


vteOccupational safety and healthOccupational diseasesand injuries
Acrodynia
Asbestosis
Asthma
Barotrauma
Berylliosis
Brucellosis
Burnout
Byssinosis ("brown lung")
Cardiovascular
Chalicosis
Chronic solvent-induced encephalopathy
Chronic stress
Chimney sweeps' carcinoma
Coalworker's pneumoconiosis ("black lung")
Concussions in sport
Decompression sickness
De Quervain syndrome
Erethism
Exposure to human nail dust
Farmer's lung
Fiddler's neck
Flock worker's lung
Glassblower's cataract
Golfer's elbow
Hearing loss
Hospital-acquired infection
Indium lung
Laboratory animal allergy
Lead poisoning
Low back pain
Mesothelioma
Metal fume fever
Mule spinners' cancer
Noise-induced hearing loss
Phossy jaw
Pneumoconiosis
Radium jaw
Repetitive strain injury
Silicosis
Silo-filler's disease
Sports injury
Surfer's ear
Tennis elbow
Tinnitus
Writer's cramp
Occupational hygiene
Occupational hazard
Biological hazard
Chemical hazard
Physical hazard
Psychosocial hazard
Occupational stress
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Prevention through design
Exposure assessment
Occupational exposure limit
Occupational epidemiology
Workplace health surveillance
Professions
Environmental health
Industrial engineering
Occupational health nursing
Occupational health psychology
Occupational medicine
Occupational therapist
Safety engineering
Agencies and organizationsInternational
European Agency for Safety and Health at Work
International Labour Organization
World Health Organization
National
Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety (Canada)
Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (Germany)
Istituto nazionale per l'assicurazione contro gli infortuni sul lavoro (Italy)
National Institute for Safety and Health at Work (Spain)
Health and Safety Executive (UK)
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (US)
Standards
Bangladesh Accord
OHSAS 18001
ISO 45001
Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981
Worker Protection Standard (US)
Working Environment Convention, 1977
Safety
Checklist
Code of practice
Contingency plan
Diving safety
Emergency procedure
Emergency evacuation
Hazard
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Hazard elimination
Administrative controls
Engineering controls
Hazard substitution
Personal protective equipment
Job safety analysis
Lockout-tagout
Permit To Work
Operations manual
Redundancy (engineering)
Risk assessment
Safety culture
Standard operating procedure
Immediately dangerous to life or health
Legislation
Diving regulations
Occupational Safety and Health Act (United States)
Potty parity (United States)
Right to sit (United States)
Workers' right to access the toilet
See also
Aerosol
Break
Break room
Drug policy
Effects of overtime
Environment, health and safety
Environmental toxicology
Ergonomics
Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention Program
Hawks Nest Tunnel disaster
Health physics
Hostile work environment
Indoor air quality
International Chemical Safety Card
Job strain
National Day of Mourning (Canada)
NIOSH air filtration rating
Overwork
Process safety
Public health
Quality of working life
Risk management
Safety data sheet
Source control
Toxic tort
Toxic workplace
Workers' compensation
Workplace hazard controls for COVID-19
Workplace health promotion

 Category
Occupational diseases
Journals
Organizations
 Commons

vteEmploymentClassifications
Academic tenure
Casual
Contingent work
Full-time job
Gig worker
Job sharing
Part-time job
Self-employment
Side job
Skilled worker
Journeyman
Technician
Tradesperson
Independent contractor
Labour hire
Temporary work
Laborer
Wage labour
Hiring
Application
Background check
Business networking
Cover letter
Curriculum vitae
Drug testing
Employment contract
Employment counsellor
Executive search
list
Induction programme
Job fair
Job fraud
Job hunting
Job interview
Letter of recommendation
Onboarding
Overqualification
Person–environment fit
Personality–job fit theory
Personality hire
Probation
Realistic job preview
Recruitment
Résumé
Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates
Underemployment
Work-at-home scheme
Roles
Cooperative
Employee
Employer
Internship
Job
Labour hire
Permanent employment
Supervisor
Volunteering
Working class
Blue-collar
Green-collar
Grey-collar
Pink-collar
Precariat
White-collar
Red-collar
New-collar
No-collar
Orange-collar
Scarlet-collar
Black-collar
Gold-collar
Career and training
Apprenticeship
Artisan
Master craftsman
Avocation
Career assessment
Career counseling
Career development
Coaching
Creative class
Education
Continuing education
E-learning
Employability
Further education
Graduate school
Induction training
Knowledge worker
Licensure
Lifelong learning
Overspecialization
Practice-based professional learning
Professional association
Professional certification
Professional development
Professional school
Reflective practice
Retraining
Vocational education
Vocational school
Vocational university
Mentorship
Occupational Outlook Handbook
Practice firm
Profession
Operator
Professional
Tradesman
Vocation
Attendance
Break
Break room
Career break
Furlough
Gap year
Leave of absence
Long service leave
No call, no show
Sabbatical
Sick leave
Time clock
Schedules
35-hour workweek
Four-day week
Eight-hour day
996 working hour system
Flextime
On-call
Overtime
Remote work
Six-hour day
Shift work
Working time
Workweek and weekend
Wages and salaries
Global labor arbitrage
Income bracket
Income tax
Living wage
Maximum wage
National average salary
World
Europe
Minimum wage
Canada
Hong Kong
Europe
United States
Progressive wage
Singapore
Overtime rate
Paid time off
Performance-related pay
Salary cap
Wage compression
Working poor
Benefits
Annual leave
Casual Friday
Child care
Disability insurance
Health insurance
Life insurance
Marriage leave
Parental leave
Pension
By country
Sick leave
United States
Take-home vehicle
Safety and health
Crunch
Epilepsy and employment
Human factors and ergonomics
Karoshi
List of countries by rate of fatal workplace accidents
Occupational burnout
Occupational disease
Occupational exposure limit
Occupational health psychology
Occupational injury
Occupational noise
Occupational stress
Personal protective equipment
Repetitive strain injury
Right to sit
United States
Sick building syndrome
Work accident
Occupational fatality
Workers' compensation
Workers' right to access the toilet
Workplace health promotion
Workplace phobia
Workplace wellness
Equal opportunity
Affirmative action
Equal pay for equal work
Gender pay gap
Glass ceiling
Infractions
Corporate collapses and scandals
Accounting scandals
Control fraud
Corporate behaviour
Corporate crime
Discrimination
Exploitation of labour
Dress code
Employee handbook
Employee monitoring
Evaluation
Labour law
Sexual harassment
Sleeping while on duty
Wage theft
Whistleblower
Workplace bullying
Workplace harassment
Workplace incivility
Willingness
Boreout
Careerism
Civil conscription
Conscription
Critique of work
Dead-end job
Job satisfaction
McJob
Organizational commitment
Refusal of work
Slavery
Bonded labour
Human trafficking
Labour camp
Penal labour
Peonage
Truck wages
Unfree labour
Wage slavery
Work ethic
Work–life interface
Downshifting
Slow living
Workaholic
Termination
At-will employment
Dismissal
Banishment room
Constructive dismissal
Wrongful dismissal
Employee offboarding
Exit interview
Layoff
Notice period
Pink slip
Resignation
Letter of resignation
Restructuring
Retirement
Mandatory retirement
Retirement age
Retirement planning
Severance package
Golden handshake
Golden parachute
Turnover
Unemployment
Barriers to entry
Discouraged worker
Economic depression
Great Depression
Long Depression
Frictional unemployment
Full employment
Graduate unemployment
Involuntary unemployment
Jobless recovery
Phillips curve
Recession
Great Recession
Job losses caused by the Great Recession
Lists of recessions
Recession-proof job
Reserve army of labour
Structural unemployment
Technological unemployment
Types of unemployment
Unemployment benefits
Unemployment Convention, 1919
Unemployment extension
List of countries by unemployment rate
Employment-to-population ratio
List
Wage curve
Youth unemployment
Public programs
Workfare
Unemployment insurance
Make-work job
Job creation program
Job creation index
Job guarantee
Employer of last resort
Guaranteed minimum income
Right to work
Historical:
U.S.A.:
Civil Works Administration
Works Progress Administration
Comprehensive Employment and Training Act

See also
Bullshit job
Busy work
Credentialism and educational inflation
Emotional labor
Evil corporation
Going postal
Kiss up kick down
Labor rights
Make-work job
Narcissism in the workplace
Post-work society
Presenteeism
Psychopathy in the workplace
Sunday scaries
Slow movement (culture)
Toxic leader
Toxic workplace
Workhouse

 See also templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Aspects of workplaces
Corporate titles
Critique of work
Organized labor

vteAspects of workplacesTopics
Absenteeism
Abusive supervision
Aggression
Anti-pattern
Artificial intelligence
Bullying
Climate
Culture
Computer surveillance
Conflict
Control freak
Counterproductive behaviour
Coworking
Culture of fear
Democracy
Deviance
Discrimination
Diversity
Divide and rule
Drug tests
Effects of overtime
Emotional labor
Emotions
Employee assistance
Employee engagement
Employee experience
Employee monitoring
Employee morale
Employee recognition
Employee silence
Employee surveys
Empowerment
Evaluation
Feminisation
Generations
Goofing off
Gossip
Happiness
Harassment
Health promotion
Health surveillance
Hostile work environment
Humor
Incivility
Inequality
Intervention
Jargon
Kick the cat
Kiss up kick down
Listening
Machiavellianism
Menopause
Micromanagement
Mobbing
Narcissism
Office politics
Overwork
Parkinson's law
Performance appraisal
Personality clash
Phobia
Positive psychology
Privacy
Probation
Profanity
Psychopathy
Quality of working life
Queen bee syndrome
Rat race
Relationships
Revenge
Robotics safety
Role conflict
Sabotage
Spirituality
Strategy
Stress
Toxic workplace
Toxic leader
Training
Turnover
Undermining
Violence
Virtual
Wellness
Work–family conflict
Workload
Workplace harassment
Workwear
See also
Corporation
Employment
Factory
Headquarters
Job
Job sharing
Labour movement
Labor rights
Office
Organization
Remote work
Strike action
Trade union
Whistleblower
 Templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Employment





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Workplace_wellness&oldid=1295020047"
Categories: Occupational safety and healthManagement cyberneticsWorkplaceHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listCS1 maint: DOI inactive as of June 2025CS1 errors: missing periodicalArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from Wikidata






 This page was last edited on 11 June 2025, at 05:58 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Workplace wellness




























4 languages


Add topic
















