



Work–life balance - Wikipedia



































Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
Dominant theories of the relationship




Toggle Dominant theories of the relationship subsection





1.1
Structural functionalism








1.2
Greedy institutions








1.3
Segmentation








1.4
Compensation Theory








1.5
Supplemental and reactive compensation








1.6
Role enhancement theory








1.7
The Negative Effects of Spillover








1.8
Work enrichment model










2
Work–family conflict








3
Work–family enrichment








4
The role of organization and supervisor








5
Research methods








6
History








7
See also








8
References


















Toggle the table of contents







Work–life balance



21 languages




العربيةDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어ItalianoעבריתҚазақшаLatviešu日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийSlovenščinaSuomiதமிழ்Türkçeاردو粵語中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

(Redirected from Work-life balance)
This article has an unclear citation style. The reason given is: Parenthetical citations are used, but the sources are not delineated separately from the reference list. The references used may be made clearer with a different or consistent style of citation and footnoting. (February 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)Intersection of work and personal life
Average annual hours actually worked per worker in OECD countries from 1970 to 2020
Deaths due to long working hours per 100,000 people (15+), joint study conducted by World Health Organization and International Labour Organization in 2016
In the intersection of work and personal life, the work–life balance is the equilibrium between the two. There are many aspects of one's personal life that can intersect with work, including family, leisure, and health. A work–life balance is bidirectional; for instance, work can interfere with private life, and private life can interfere with work. This balance or interface can be adverse in nature (e.g., work–life conflict) or can be beneficial (e.g., work–life enrichment) in nature.[1] Recent research has shown that the work-life interface has become more boundary-less, especially for technology-enabled workers.[2][3][4]


Dominant theories of the relationship[edit]
Several theories explain different aspects of the relationship between work and family life. Boundary theory and border theory are the two fundamental theories that researchers have used to study these role conflicts. Other theories are built upon the foundations of these two theories. In the two decades since boundary theory and border theory were first proposed, the rise of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) has drastically altered the work–life interface.[2] Work can now be completed at any time and in any location, meaning that domains are more likely to be blended and boundaries barely exist.[2][5]
Seven dominant theories have been utilized to explain this relationship on the boundary-border spectrum; These theories are: structural functionalism, segmentation, compensation, supplemental and reactive compensation, role enhancement, spillover, and work enrichment model.[6]

Structural functionalism[edit]
The roots of this theory can be traced back to the early 20th century, when industrial revolution was separating economic work from the family home. The 19th century's technological advancements in machinery and manufacturing initiated the separation of work from family. However, it was not until the early 20th century that the first view of work–family theories started to take shape. Structural-functionalism was one of the dominant sociology theories of early 20th century and one of the first to resemble modern work–family theories.
The structural functionalism theory, which emerged following WWII, was largely influenced from the industrial revolution and the changes in the social role of men and women during this period.  This theory implies that life is concerned mainly with two separate spheres: productive life which happens in the workplace and affective life which occurs at home. Structural functionalism theory believes in the existence of radical separation between work (institution, workplace, or market) and families. According to this theory, these two (workplace and family) work best "when men and women specialize their activities in separate spheres, women at home doing expressive work and men in the workplace performing instrumental tasks".[7]

Greedy institutions[edit]
It has been argued that the work–family conflicts, in particular role conflicts, can be interpreted in terms of Lewis A. Coser's concept of "greedy institutions". These institutions are called "greedy" in the sense that they make all-encompassing demands on the commitment and loyalty of individuals, and tend to discourage involvement in other social spheres.[8][9][10] Institutions such as religious orders, sects, academia, top level sports, the military and senior management have been interpreted as greedy institutions. On the other hand, also the family has been interpreted as a greedy institution in consideration of the demands placed on a caretaker.[11][12] When a person is involved in two greedy institutions—be it child care and university, or family and the military,[13] or others—task and role conflicts arise.
A 2020 LinkedIn survey based on over 2.9 million responses concluded that employees struggling with work–life balance were 4.4 times more likely to show symptoms of occupational burnout.[14]

Segmentation[edit]
Based  on  this theory  work  and  family do  not  affect  each other, since  they  are  segmented  and  independent  from  each  other.[6] The literature also reports the usage of the terms compartmentalization, independence, separateness, disengagement, neutrality, and detachment to describe this theory.[15]

Compensation Theory[edit]
In 1979, Piotrkowski argued that according to this theory employees "look to their homes as havens, [and] look to their families as sources of satisfaction lacking in the occupational sphere."[6] What distinguishes compensation theory from the previous theories is that, in compensation theory, for the first time, the positive effect of work to family has been recognized.

Supplemental and reactive compensation[edit]
Supplemental and reactive compensation theories are two dichotomies of compensation theory which were developed during the late 1980s and the early 1990s. While compensation theory describes the behavior of employees in pursuing an alternative reward in the other sphere, supplemental and reactive compensation theories try to describe the reason behind the work–family compensation behavior of employees.

Role enhancement theory[edit]
According to this theory, the combination of certain roles has a positive, rather than a negative effect on well-being. This theory states that participation in one role is made better or easier by virtue of participation in the other role. Moreover, this theory acknowledges the negative effect of the work–family relationship, in which, only beyond a certain upper limit may overload and distress occur, however, the central focus of this perspective is mainly on the positive effects of work and family relationship, such as resource enhancement.

The Negative Effects of Spillover[edit]
Spillover is a process by which an employee's experience in one domain affects their experience in another domain. Theoretically, spillover is perceived to be one of two types: positive or negative. Spillover as the most popular view of relationship between work and family, considers multidimensional aspects of work and family relationship.
According to a 2021 study by Indeed, 53% of on-site workers found it challenging to stop thinking about work in their spare time.[16][17]

Work enrichment model[edit]
This theory is one of the recent models for explaining the relationship between work and family. According to this model, experience in one role (work or family) will enhance the quality of life in the other role. In other words, this model tries to explain the positive effects of the work–family relationship.

Work–family conflict[edit]
Main article: Work–family conflict
Work and family studies historically focus on studying the conflict between different roles that individuals have in their society, specifically their roles at work, and their roles as a family member.[6]
Work–family conflict is defined as interrole conflict where the participation in one role interfere with the participation in another. Greenhaus and Beutell (1985) differentiate three sources for conflict between work and family: 

"time devoted to the requirements of one role makes it difficult to fulfill requirements of another" (p. 76);
"strain from participation in one role makes it difficult to fulfill requirements of another" (p. 76);
"specific behaviors required by one role make it difficult to fulfill the requirements of another" (p. 76).
Adopted from Lavassani & Movahedi (2014), Work–life interface[6]
Conceptually, the conflict between work and family is bi-directional. Scholars distinguish between what is termed work-to-family conflict (WFC), and what is termed family-to-work conflict (FWC). This bi-directional view is displayed in the figure on the right.
Accordingly, WFC might occur when experiences at work interfere with family life like extensive, irregular, or inflexible work hours. Family-to-work conflict occurs when experiences in the family interfere with work life. For example, a parent may take time off from work in order to take care of a sick child. Although these two forms of conflict—WFC and FWC—are strongly correlated with each other, more attention has been directed at WFC. This may because family demands are more elastic than the boundaries and responsibilities of the work role. Also, research has found that work roles are more likely to interfere with family roles than family roles are likely to interfere with work role.[18]
Allen, Herst, Bruck, and Sutton (2000)[6] describe in their paper three categories of consequences related to WFC: work-related outcomes (e.g., job satisfaction or job performance), nonwork-related outcomes (e.g., life or family satisfaction), and stress-related outcomes (e.g., depression or substance abuse). For example, WFC has been shown to be negatively related to job satisfaction whereas the association is more pronounced for females.[19]
The vast majority of studies investigating the consequences of WFC were interrogating samples from Western countries, such as U.S. Therefore, the generalization of their findings is in question. Fortunately, there is also literature studying WFC and its consequences in other cultural contexts, such as Taiwan[20] and India.[21] Lu, Kao, Cooper, Allen, Lapierre, O'Driscoll, Poelmans, Sanchez, and Spector (2009) could  not find any cultural difference related in work-related and nonwork-related outcomes of WFC when they compared Great Britain and Taiwan. Likewise, Pal and Saksvik (2008) also did not detect specific cultural differences between employees from Norway and India. Nevertheless, more cross-cultural research is needed to understand the cultural dimensions of the WFC construct.
The research concerning interventions to reduce WFC is currently still very limited. As an exception, Nielson, Carlson, and Lankau (2001)[22] showed that having a supportive mentor on the job correlates negatively with the employee's WFC. However, other functions of mentoring, like the role model aspect, appear to have no effect on WFC. Therefore, the mechanisms how having a mentor influences the work–family interface remain unclear.
In terms of primary and secondary intervention there are some results. Hammer, Kossek, Anger, Bodner, and Zimmerman (2011)[23] conducted a field study and showed that training supervisors to show more family supportive behavior, led to increased physical health in employees that were high in WFC. At the same time, employees having low WFC scores even decreased in physical health. This shows that even though interventions can help, it is important to focus on the right persons. Otherwise, the intervention damages more than it helps.
Another study (Wilson, Polzer-Debruyne, Chen, & Fernandes, 2007)[24] showed that training employees helps to reduce shift work related WFC. Additionally, this training is more effective, if the partner of the focal person is also participating. Therefore, integrating the family into the intervention seems to be helpful too.
There are various additional factors that might influence the effectiveness of WFC interventions. For example, some interventions seem more adequate to reduce family-to-work conflict (FWC) than WFC (Hammer et al., 2011). More research is still needed, before optimal treatments against WFC can be derived.

Work–family enrichment[edit]
Main article: Work–family enrichment
Work–family enrichment or work–family facilitation is a form of positive spillover, defined as a process whereby involvement in one domain establishes benefits and/or resources which then may improve performance or involvement in another domain (Greenhaus & Powell, 2006).[25] For example, involvement in the family role is made easier by participation in the work role (Wayne, Musisca, & Fleeson, 2004).[26]
In contrast to work–family conflict which is associated with several negative consequences, work–family enrichment is related to positive organizational outcomes such as job satisfaction and effort (Wayne et al., 2004). There are several potential sources enrichment can arise from. Examples are that resources (e.g., positive mood) gained in one role lead to better functioning in the other role (Sieber, 1974)[27] or skills and attitudes that are acquired in one role are useful in the other role (Crouter, 1984).[28]
Conceptually, enrichment between work and family is bi-directional. Most researchers make the distinction between what is termed work–family enrichment, and what is termed family–work enrichment. Work–family enrichment occurs, when ones involvement in work provides skills, behaviors, or positive mood which influences the family life in a positive way. Family-work enrichment, however, occurs when ones involvement in the family domain results in positive mood, feeling of success or support that help individuals to cope better with problems at work, feel more confident and in the end being more productive at work (Wayne, et al., 2004).
Several antecedents of work–family enrichment have been proposed. Personality traits, such as extraversion and openness for experience have been shown to be positively related to work–family enrichment (Wayne et al., 2004). Next to individual antecedents, organizational circumstances such as resources and skills gained at work foster the occurrence of work–family enrichment (Voydanoff, 2004).[29] For example, abilities such as interpersonal communication skills are learned at work and may then facilitate constructive communication with family members at home.

The role of organization and supervisor[edit]
Research has focused especially on the role of the organization and the supervisor in the reduction of WFC. Results provide evidence for the negative association between the availability of family friendly resources provided by the work place and WFC. General support by the organization aids the employees to deal with work family issues so that organizational support is negatively connected to WFC (Kossek, Pichler, Bodner, & Hammer, 2011).[30] Furthermore, Kossek et al. (2011) showed that work family specific support has a stronger negative connection with work family conflict. Results by other researchers show that family friendly organizational culture also has an indirect effect on WFC via supervisor support and coworker support (Dolcoy & Daley, 2009).[31]
Some research also shows that the utilization of provided resources such as child care support or flexible work hours has no longitudinal connection with WFC (Hammer, Neal, Newson, Brockwood, & Colton, 2005).[32] This result speaks against common assumptions. Also, the supervisor has a social-support function for his/her subordinates. As Moen and Yu (2000)[33] showed supervisor support is an indicator for lower levels of WFC. Further support for this hypothesis stems from a study conducted by Thompson and Prottas (2005).[34] Keeping in mind the support function, organizations should provide trainings for the supervisors and conduct the selection process of new employees. Similar as for organizational support, the meta-analysis by Kossek et al. (2011) showed that general supervisor is negatively connected to WFC. Again, work–family-specific supervisor support has a stronger negative connection with WFC. Aside from support by the organization and the supervisor, research points out a third source of work-place support: The coworker. The informal support by the coworker not only correlates with positive aspects such as job satisfaction, but is also negatively associated with negative variables such as WFC (Dolcos & Doley, 2009; Thompson & Prottas, 2005).
In terms of work–family enrichment, supervisors and organizations are also relevant, since they are able to provide with important resource (e.g., skills and financial benefits) and positive affect.

Research methods[edit]
A methodological review by Casper, Eby, Bordeaux, Lockwood, and Lambert (2007)[35] summarizes the research methods used in the area of work–family research from 1980 to 2003. Their main findings are that study samples do include diverse family types, and most research relies on surveys. 

History[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (May 2025)
Lillian Moller Gilbreth established the philosophical basis for work-life balance.[36]

See also[edit]

Achievement ideology
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy
Annual leave
Burnout
Critique of work
Downshifting (lifestyle)
Effects of overtime
Four-day workweek
Leisure
List of minimum annual leave by country
Marx's theory of alienation
Need for achievement
Overwork
Paid time off
Productivism
Return on time invested (ROTI)
Right to rest and leisure
Severance (TV series)
Six-hour day
Social alienation
Workaholic
Work–life balance in Germany
Work–life balance in South Korea
Work–life balance in the European Union
Work–life balance in the United States

References[edit]


^ Greenhaus, J. H.; Allen, T. D. (2011). J. C. Quick; L. E. Tetrick (eds.). Work–family balance: A review and extension of the literature (2nd ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. pp. 165–183.

^ a b c Chan, Xi Wen; Field, Justin Craig (2018). "Contemporary Knowledge Workers and the Boundaryless Work–Life Interface: Implications for the Human Resource Management of the Knowledge Workforce". Frontiers in Psychology. 9: 2414. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2018.02414. ISSN 1664-1078. PMC 6283975. PMID 30555399.

^ Jones, F.; Burke, R. J.; Westman, M. (2013). Work-Life Balance: A Psychological Perspective. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1-135-42219-6. Retrieved 2020-12-01.

^ Friedman, S. D.; Saunders, E. G.; Bregman, P. (2019). HBR Guide to Work-Life Balance. Harvard Business Review Press. ISBN 978-1-63369-713-3. Retrieved 2020-12-01.

^ Woolston, Chris (8 July 2022). "How to deal with work stress — and actually recover from burnout". Knowable Magazine. doi:10.1146/knowable-070722-1. Retrieved 4 August 2022.

^ a b c d e f Lavassani, K. M., & Movahedi, P. (2014). "Developments in theories and measures of work–family". Contemporary Research on Organization Management and Administration, 2, 6–19.

^ Kingsbury & Scanzoni, 1993; as cited in MacDermid, 2005:18.

^ Lewis A. Coser: Greedy Institutions: Patterns of Undivided Commitment. The Free Press, New York 1974. Cited after: Jan Currie, Patricia Harris, Bev Thiele: "Sacrifices in Greedy Universities: Are They Gendered?" Gender and Education, 2000, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 269–291. S. 270.

^ Lewis A. Coser: Greedy Institutions: Patterns of Undivided Commitment. The Free Press, New York 1974. Cited after R. Burchielli, T. Bartram: "Work–Family Balance or Greedy Organizations?", érudit, 2008, Vol. 63, No. 1, pp. 108–133, doi:10.7202/018124ar

^ Lewis A. Coser: Greedy Institutions: Patterns of Undivided Commitment. The Free Press, New York 1974. Cited after: Asher Cohen, Bernard Susser: "Women Singing, Cadets Leaving: The Extreme Case Syndrome in Religion-Army Relationships", pp. 127 ff. In: Elisheva Rosman-Stollman, Aharon Kampinsky: Civil–Military Relations in Israel: Essays in Honor of Stuart A. Cohen, Lexington Books, 2014, ISBN 978-0-7391-9417-1, p. 130.

^ Rosalind Edwards: Mature Women Students: Separating or Connecting Family and Education, Taylor & Francis 1993, ISBN 978-0-7484-0087-4, Chapter 4 "'Greedy Institutions': Straddling the worlds of family and education". pp. 62 ff.

^ Jan Currie, Patricia Harris, Bev Thiele: "Sacrifices in Greedy Universities: Are They Gendered?" Gender and Education, 2000, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 269–291.

^ M. W. Segal: "The Military and the Family as Greedy Institutions", Armed Forces & Society (1986), Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 9–38, doi:10.1177/0095327X8601300101 (abstract).

^ "How Employees Are Feeling: Burnout Rises to Top of Stressor List". LinkedIn. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ Schultz Jennifer, Higbee Jeanne (April 2010). "An Exploration Of Theoretical Foundations For Working Mothers' Formal Workplace Social Networks". Journal of Business & Economics Research. 8 (4): 87–94.

^ Indeed (2021). "Employee Burnout Report: COVID-19's Impact and 3 Strategies to Curb It".

^ Morrison, Courtney (2021-05-04). "16 Employee Burnout Statistics You Can't Ignore". EveryoneSocial. Retrieved 2023-10-28.

^ Whiston, Susan C.; Cinamon, Rachel G. (March 2015). "The Work–Family Interface: Integrating Research and Career Counseling Practice". The Career Development Quarterly. 63 (1): 44–56. doi:10.1002/j.2161-0045.2015.00094.x. ISSN 0889-4019.

^ Grandey, A. A., Cordeiro, B. L., & Crouter, A. C. (2005). A longitudinal and multi-source test of the work–family conflict and job satisfaction relationship. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 78, 305–323.

^ Lu, L., Kao, S. F., Cooper, C. L., Allen, T. D., Lapierre, L. M., O'Driscoll, M., Poelmans, S. A. Y., Sanchez, J. I., & Spector, P. L. (2009). Work resources, work-to-family conflict, and its consequences: A Taiwanese–British cross-cultural comparison. International Journal of Stress Management, 16, 25-44.

^ Pal, S., & Saksvik, P. Ø. (2008). Work–family conflict and psychosocial work environment stressors as predictors of job stress in a cross-cultural study. International Journal of Stress Management, 15, 22–42.

^ Nielson, T. R., Carlson, D. S., & Lankau, M. J. (2001). The supportive mentor as a means of reducing Work–Family conflict. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 59, 364–381.

^ Hammer, L. B., Kossek, E., Anger, W., Bodner, T., & Zimmerman, K. L. (2011). Clarifying work–family intervention processes: The roles of work–family conflict and family-supportive supervisor behaviors. Journal of Applied Psychology, 96, 134–150.

^ Wilson, M. G., Polzer-Debruyne, A., Chen, S. & Fernandes, S. (2007). Shift work interventions for reduced work–family conflict. Employee Relations, 29, 162–177.

^ Greenhaus, J. H., & Powell, G. N. (2006). When work and family are allies: A theory of work–family enrichment. Academy of Management Review, 31, 72–92.

^ Wayne, J. H., Musisca, N., & Fleeson, W. (2004). Considering the role of personality in the work–family experience: Relationships of the big five to work–family conflict and facilitation. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 64, 108–130. doi:10.1016/S0001-8791(03)00035-6

^ Sieber, S. D. (1974). Toward a theory of role accumulation. American Sociological Review, 39, 567–578. doi:10.2307/2094422

^ Crouter, A. C. (1984). Spillover from family to work: The neglected side of the work–family interface. Human Relations, 37, 425–441. doi:10.1177/001872678403700601

^ Voydanoff, P. (2004). The effects of work demands and resources on work-to-family conflict and facilitation. Journal of Marriage and Family, 66, 398–412. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3737.2004.00028.x

^ Kossek, E.E., Pichler, S., Bodner, T., & Hammer, L. (2011). Workplace Social Support and Work–Family Conflict: A Meta Analysis Clarifying the Influence of General and Work Specific Supervisor and Organizational Support. Personnel Psychology, 64, 289–313.

^ Dolcos, S., & Daley, D. (2009). Work pressure, workplace social resources and work–family conflict: The tale of two sectors, International Journal of Stress Management, 16, 291–311.

^ Hammer, L., Neal, M., Newson, J., Brockwood, K., & Colton, C. (2005). A Longitudinal Study of the Effects of Dual-Earner Couples' Utilization of Family-Friendly Workplace Supports on Work and Family Outcomes. Journal of Applied Psychology, 90, 799–810.

^ Moen, P., & Yu, Y. (2000). Effective work/life strategies: Working couples, work conditions, gender, and life quality. Social Problems, 47, 291–326.

^ Thompson, C. A., & Prottas, D. F. (2005). Relationships among organizational family support, job autonomy, perceived control, and employee well-being. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 10, 100–118.

^ Casper, W. J., Eby, L. T., Bordeaux, C., Lockwood, A., & Lambert, D. (2007). A review of research methods in IO/OB work–family research. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 28–43.

^ Nocks, Lisa (17 March 2021). "Learn Who We Have to Thank for the Term Work-Life Balance". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved 22 March 2021.


vteEmploymentClassifications
Academic tenure
Casual
Contingent work
Full-time job
Gig worker
Job sharing
Part-time job
Self-employment
Side job
Skilled worker
Journeyman
Technician
Tradesperson
Independent contractor
Labour hire
Temporary work
Laborer
Wage labour
Hiring
Application
Background check
Business networking
Cover letter
Curriculum vitae
Drug testing
Employment contract
Employment counsellor
Executive search
list
Induction programme
Job fair
Job fraud
Job hunting
Job interview
Letter of recommendation
Onboarding
Overqualification
Person–environment fit
Personality–job fit theory
Personality hire
Probation
Realistic job preview
Recruitment
Résumé
Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates
Underemployment
Work-at-home scheme
Roles
Cooperative
Employee
Employer
Internship
Job
Labour hire
Permanent employment
Supervisor
Volunteering
Working class
Blue-collar
Green-collar
Grey-collar
Pink-collar
Precariat
White-collar
Red-collar
New-collar
No-collar
Orange-collar
Scarlet-collar
Black-collar
Gold-collar
Career and training
Apprenticeship
Artisan
Master craftsman
Avocation
Career assessment
Career counseling
Career development
Coaching
Creative class
Education
Continuing education
E-learning
Employability
Further education
Graduate school
Induction training
Knowledge worker
Licensure
Lifelong learning
Overspecialization
Practice-based professional learning
Professional association
Professional certification
Professional development
Professional school
Reflective practice
Retraining
Vocational education
Vocational school
Vocational university
Mentorship
Occupational Outlook Handbook
Practice firm
Profession
Operator
Professional
Tradesman
Vocation
Attendance
Break
Break room
Career break
Furlough
Gap year
Leave of absence
Long service leave
No call, no show
Sabbatical
Sick leave
Time clock
Schedules
35-hour workweek
Four-day week
Eight-hour day
996 working hour system
Flextime
On-call
Overtime
Remote work
Six-hour day
Shift work
Working time
Workweek and weekend
Wages and salaries
Global labor arbitrage
Income bracket
Income tax
Living wage
Maximum wage
National average salary
World
Europe
Minimum wage
Canada
Hong Kong
Europe
United States
Progressive wage
Singapore
Overtime rate
Paid time off
Performance-related pay
Salary cap
Wage compression
Working poor
Benefits
Annual leave
Casual Friday
Child care
Disability insurance
Health insurance
Life insurance
Marriage leave
Parental leave
Pension
By country
Sick leave
United States
Take-home vehicle
Safety and health
Crunch
Epilepsy and employment
Human factors and ergonomics
Karoshi
List of countries by rate of fatal workplace accidents
Occupational burnout
Occupational disease
Occupational exposure limit
Occupational health psychology
Occupational injury
Occupational noise
Occupational stress
Personal protective equipment
Repetitive strain injury
Right to sit
United States
Sick building syndrome
Work accident
Occupational fatality
Workers' compensation
Workers' right to access the toilet
Workplace health promotion
Workplace phobia
Workplace wellness
Equal opportunity
Affirmative action
Equal pay for equal work
Gender pay gap
Glass ceiling
Infractions
Corporate collapses and scandals
Accounting scandals
Control fraud
Corporate behaviour
Corporate crime
Discrimination
Exploitation of labour
Dress code
Employee handbook
Employee monitoring
Evaluation
Labour law
Sexual harassment
Sleeping while on duty
Wage theft
Whistleblower
Workplace bullying
Workplace harassment
Workplace incivility
Willingness
Boreout
Careerism
Civil conscription
Conscription
Critique of work
Dead-end job
Job satisfaction
McJob
Organizational commitment
Refusal of work
Slavery
Bonded labour
Human trafficking
Labour camp
Penal labour
Peonage
Truck wages
Unfree labour
Wage slavery
Work ethic
Work–life interface
Downshifting
Slow living
Workaholic
Termination
At-will employment
Dismissal
Banishment room
Constructive dismissal
Wrongful dismissal
Employee offboarding
Exit interview
Layoff
Notice period
Pink slip
Resignation
Letter of resignation
Restructuring
Retirement
Mandatory retirement
Retirement age
Retirement planning
Severance package
Golden handshake
Golden parachute
Turnover
Unemployment
Barriers to entry
Discouraged worker
Economic depression
Great Depression
Long Depression
Frictional unemployment
Full employment
Graduate unemployment
Involuntary unemployment
Jobless recovery
Phillips curve
Recession
Great Recession
Job losses caused by the Great Recession
Lists of recessions
Recession-proof job
Reserve army of labour
Structural unemployment
Technological unemployment
Types of unemployment
Unemployment benefits
Unemployment Convention, 1919
Unemployment extension
List of countries by unemployment rate
Employment-to-population ratio
List
Wage curve
Youth unemployment
Public programs
Workfare
Unemployment insurance
Make-work job
Job creation program
Job creation index
Job guarantee
Employer of last resort
Guaranteed minimum income
Right to work
Historical:
U.S.A.:
Civil Works Administration
Works Progress Administration
Comprehensive Employment and Training Act

See also
Bullshit job
Busy work
Credentialism and educational inflation
Emotional labor
Evil corporation
Going postal
Kiss up kick down
Labor rights
Make-work job
Narcissism in the workplace
Post-work society
Presenteeism
Psychopathy in the workplace
Sunday scaries
Slow movement (culture)
Toxic leader
Toxic workplace
Workhouse

 See also templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Aspects of workplaces
Corporate titles
Critique of work
Organized labor

vteSimple livingPractices
Barter
Cord-cutting
DIY ethic
Downshifting
Dry toilet
Fasting
Forest gardening
Freeganism
Frugality
Gift economy
Intentional community
Local currency
Low-impact development
No frills
Off-the-grid
Permaculture
Regift
Sattvic diet
Self-sufficiency
Slow living
Slow movement (culture)
Subsistence agriculture
Sustainable living
Sustainable sanitation
Veganism
Vegetarianism
War tax resistance
WWOOF
Religious and spiritual
Amish
Aparigraha
Asceticism
Detachment
Distributism
Jesus movement
Mendicant
Mindfulness
Monasticism
New Monasticism
Plain dress
Plain people
Quakers
Rastafari
Temperance
Testimony of simplicity
Tolstoyan movement
Twelve Tribes communities
Secular movements
Back-to-the-land
Car-free
Environmental
Hippie
Open Source Ecology
Slow
Small house
Tiny house
Transition town
Notable writers
Wendell Berry
Ernest Callenbach
G. K. Chesterton
Duane Elgin
Mahatma Gandhi
Richard Gregg
Tom Hodgkinson
Harlan Hubbard
Satish Kumar
Helen Nearing
Scott Nearing
Peace Pilgrim
Nick Rosen
Dugald Semple
E. F. Schumacher
George Skene Keith
Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy
Valluvar
Modern-day adherents
Mark Boyle
Robin Greenfield
Ted Kaczynski
Pentti Linkola
Jim Merkel
Peace Pilgrim
Suelo
Thomas
Media
"Anekdote zur Senkung der Arbeitsmoral"
Escape from Affluenza
The Good Life
The Moon and the Sledgehammer
Mother Earth News
The Power of Half
Small Is Beautiful
Walden
Related
Affluenza
Agrarianism
Amateurism
Anarcho-primitivism
Anti-consumerism
Appropriate technology
Bohemianism
Consumerism
Critique of work
Deep ecology
Degrowth
Ecological footprint
Food miles
Front Porch Republic
Green anarchism
The good life
Global warming
Hedonophobia
Intentional living
commune
Rainbow Gathering
Itinerant
Low-technology
Nonviolence
Peak oil
Sustainability
Work–life interface





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Work–life_balance&oldid=1292087300"
Categories: Work–life balanceWorkEmploymentHidden categories: Wikipedia references cleanup from February 2024All articles needing references cleanupArticles covered by WikiProject Wikify from February 2024All articles covered by WikiProject WikifyArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles to be expanded from May 2025All articles to be expanded






 This page was last edited on 25 May 2025, at 04:06 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Work–life balance




























21 languages


Add topic
















