



Professional development - Wikipedia



























Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages



















Search











Search






















Appearance
















Donate

Create account

Log in








Personal tools





Donate Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1
Participants








2
Approaches








3
Initial








4
Continuing








5
See also








6
References








7
External links


















Toggle the table of contents







Professional development



22 languages




العربيةCymraegEspañolEsperantoEuskaraFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaעבריתქართულიLatviešuNederlands日本語ਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSuomiТоҷикӣУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtKadazandusun

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item





















Appearance
move to sidebar
hide










From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

(Redirected from Workplace training)
Learning to earn or maintain professional credentials
"Professional education" redirects here and is not to be confused with Vocational education.
Professional development, also known as professional education, is learning that leads to or emphasizes education in a specific professional career field or builds practical job applicable skills emphasizing praxis in addition to the transferable skills and theoretical academic knowledge found in traditional liberal arts and pure sciences education. It is used to earn or maintain professional credentials such as professional certifications or academic degrees through formal coursework at institutions known as professional schools, or attending conferences and informal learning opportunities to strengthen or gain new skills.[1][2]
Professional education has been described as intensive and collaborative, ideally incorporating an evaluative stage.[1] There is a variety of approaches to professional development or professional education, including consultation, coaching, communities of practice, lesson study, case study, capstone project, mentoring, reflective supervision and technical assistance.[3]


Participants[edit]
A wide variety of people, such as teachers, military officers and non-commissioned officers, health care professionals, architects, lawyers, accountants and engineers engage in professional development. Individuals may participate in professional development because of an interest in lifelong learning, a sense of moral obligation, to maintain and improve professional competence, to enhance career progression, to keep abreast of new technology and practices, or to comply with professional regulatory requirements.[4][5] In the training of school staff in the United States, "[t]he need for professional development ... came to the forefront in the 1960s".[6] Many American states have professional development requirements for school teachers. For example, Arkansas teachers must complete 60 hours of documented professional development activities annually.[7] Professional development credits are named differently from state to state. For example, teachers in Indiana are required to earn 90 Continuing Renewal Units (CRUs) per year;[8] in Massachusetts, teachers need 150 Professional Development Points (PDPs);[9] and in Georgia, teachers must earn 10 Professional Learning Units (PLUs).[10] American and Canadian nurses, as well as those in the United Kingdom, have to participate in formal and informal professional development (earning credit based on attendance of education that has been accredited by a regulatory agency) in order to maintain professional registration.[11][12][13]

Approaches[edit]
In a broad sense, professional development may include formal types of vocational education, typically post-secondary or poly-technical training leading to qualification or credential required to obtain or retain employment. Professional development may also come in the form of pre-service or in-service professional development programs. These programs may be formal, or informal, group or individualized. Individuals may pursue professional development independently, or programs may be offered by human resource departments. Professional development on the job may develop or enhance process skills, sometimes referred to as leadership skills, as well as task skills. Some examples for process skills are 'effectiveness skills', 'team functioning skills', and 'systems thinking skills'.[14][15]
Professional development opportunities can range from a single workshop to a semester-long academic course, to services offered by a medley of different professional development providers and varying widely with respect to the philosophy, content, and format of the learning experiences.  Some examples of approaches to professional development include:[3]

Case Study Method – The case method is a teaching approach that consists in presenting the students with a case, putting them in the role of a decision maker facing a problem (Hammond 1976) harv error: no target: CITEREFHammond1976 (help) – See Case method.
Consultation – to assist an individual or group of individuals to clarify and address immediate concerns by following a systematic problem-solving process.
Coaching – to enhance a person's competencies in a specific skill area by providing a process of observation, reflection, and action.
Community of Practice – to improve professional practice by engaging in shared inquiry and learning with people who have a common goal
Lesson Study – to solve practical dilemmas related to intervention or instruction through participation with other professionals in systematically examining practice
Mentoring – to promote an individual's  awareness and refinement of his or her own professional development by providing and recommending structured opportunities for reflection and observation
Reflective Supervision – to support, develop, and ultimately evaluate the performance of employees through a process of inquiry that encourages their understanding and articulation of the rationale for their own practices
Technical Assistance – to assist individuals and their organization to improve by offering resources and information, supporting networking and change efforts.[citation needed]
The World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work [16] argues that professional development opportunities for those both in and out of work, such as flexible learning opportunities at universities and adult learning programs, enable labor markets to adjust to the future of work.

Initial[edit]
Initial professional development (IPD) is defined as "a period of development during which an individual acquires a level of competence necessary in order to operate as an autonomous professional".[17] Professional associations may recognise the successful completion of IPD by the award of chartered or similar status. Examples of professional bodies that require IPD prior to the award of professional status are the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications,[18] the Institution of Structural Engineers,[19] and the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health.[20]

Continuing[edit]
Continuing professional development (CPD) or continuing professional education (CPE) is continuing education to maintain knowledge and skills. Most professions have CPD obligations. Examples are the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors,[21] American Academy of Financial Management,[22] safety professionals with the International Institute of Risk & Safety Management (IIRSM)[23] or the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH),[24] and medical and legal professionals, who are subject to continuing medical education or continuing legal education requirements, which vary by jurisdiction.
CPD authorities in the United Kingdom include the CPD Standards Office[25] who work in partnership with the CPD Institute,[26] and also the CPD Certification Service.[27] For example, CPD by the Institute of Highway Engineers is approved by the CPD Standards Office,[28] and CPD by the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation is approved by the CPD Certification Service.[29]
A systematic review published in 2019 by the Campbell Collaboration found little evidence of the effectiveness of continuing professional development (CPD).[30]

See also[edit]

Apprenticeship – Training for trades
Career – Individual's journey through learning, work, and other aspects of life
Core competency – Management concept of identifying the basis of competitiveness in an industry
Induction training – A form of introduction to an organisation for new employees
Licensure – Form of government regulation on professions or vocations for compensationPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Mentor – Guidance relationshipPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Organizational dissent – expression of disagreement or contradictory opinions about organizational practices and policiesPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback
Reflective practice – Ability to reflect on one's actions so as to engage in a process of continuous learning
Training and development – Improving the effectiveness of organizations and the individuals and teams within them
Vocational education – Studies that prepare a person for a specific occupation
Arete (moral virtue) – Greek philosophical conceptPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
SWOT analysis – Business planning and analysis technique

References[edit]


^ a b Speck, M. & Knipe, C. (2005) Why can't we get it right? Designing high-quality professional development for standards-based schools(2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Corwin Press[need quotation to verify]

^ Summer, Gail (2006-01-01). "Professional Education/Liberal Arts Education: Not a Case of Either-Or but Both-And". Intersections. 2006 (24).

Available at: http://digitalcommons.augustana.edu/intersections/vol2006/iss24/6

^ a b National Professional Development Center on Inclusion. (2008). "What do we mean by professional development in the early childhood field?" Archived 2018-07-24 at the Wayback Machine. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina, FPG Child Development Institute.

^ Golding, L. & Gray, I. (2006).Continuing professional development for clinical psychologists:A practical handbook. The British Psychological Society. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing

^ Jasper, M. (2006).Professional development, reflection, and decision-making. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing.

^ Murphy-Latta, Terry (2008). A Comparative Study of Professional Development Utilizing the Missouri Commissioner's Award of Excellence and Indicators of Student Achievement. p. 19. ISBN 9780549489900. Retrieved 2013-08-12. Throughout the history of American education, numerous theories and issues have been emphasized as important factors in teaching and learning. The need for professional development for school staff came to the forefront in the 1960s.[permanent dead link]

^ "Professional Development and Renewal of Standard Teaching License". ArkansasEd.org. Arkansas Department of Education. Archived from the original on 30 April 2009.

^ "Indiana Certification Renewal | Find Out How to Renew Indiana Teaching Certificates on". Teacher-world.com. Archived from the original on 2013-09-28. Retrieved 2014-03-20.

^ "Recertification Q and A - Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education". Doe.mass.edu. 2014-02-03. Retrieved 2014-03-20.

^ "Georgia Teacher Certification Information - Georgia PLU's Resources Online - GA Teaching License Resources". Teachersprofessionallearningunits.com. Archived from the original on 2013-12-16. Retrieved 2014-03-20.

^ "Continuing Competence". College of Registered Nurses of Manitoba. April 2004. Archived from the original on 31 May 2008.

^ "Continuing Education". North Dakota Board of Nursing. Archived from the original on 7 February 2009.

^ "The Nursing and Midwifery Council | Nursing and Midwifery Council". Nmc-uk.org. 2014-03-14. Retrieved 2014-03-20.

^ Garet, M. S.; Porter, A. C; Desimone, L.; Birman, B. F; Yoon, K. S. (1 January 2001). "What Makes Professional Development Effective? Results From a National Sample of Teachers". American Educational Research Journal. 38 (4): 915–945. doi:10.3102/00028312038004915. S2CID 14682751.

^ "Connecting Coaches to Corporates". twofold.asia. Archived from the original on 24 June 2015. Retrieved 28 April 2015.

^ World Bank World Development Report 2019: The Changing Nature of Work.

^ The UK Initial Professional Development (IPD) Forum http://www.littlerichley.eclipse.co.uk/ukipdforum/

^ "Initial Professional Development (IPD)". The Institute of Mathematics and its Applications. Retrieved 8 June 2014.

^ "Initial Professional Development". The Institution of Structural Engineers. Retrieved 8 June 2014.

^ "Membership: About membership: Professional development: About IPD". (IOSH). Retrieved 9 August 2014.

^ "About RCIS: What we do: Continuing professional development (CPD)". Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Archived from the original on 29 January 2024. Retrieved 29 January 2024.

^ "GAFM ® Certified Financial Analyst Certification Risk Certified Financial Planner Books GAFM ® - AFA Accredited Financial Analyst ® Certification - AMA Accredited Management Accountant ® - MMC Master Management Consultant ® Chartered Economist - Continuing Ed". www.financialanalyst.org.

^ "IIRSM | Become a Member | Membership Levels". Archived from the original on 2013-09-27. Retrieved 2013-09-16.

^ "Membership: About membership: Professional development: About CPD". (IOSH). Retrieved 9 August 2014.

^ "CPD Standards Office". Retrieved November 26, 2022.

^ "CPD Institute". Retrieved November 26, 2022.

^ "CPD Certification Service". Retrieved November 26, 2022.

^ "Institute of Highway Engineers". cpdstandards.com. Retrieved 10 December 2022.

^ "CPD in the Construction Sector". cpduk.co.uk. Retrieved 10 December 2022. Click on 'Professional Bodies'

^ Filges, T, Torgerson, C, Gascoine, L, Dietrichson, J, Nielsen, C, Viinholt, BA. Effectiveness of continuing professional development training of welfare professionals on outcomes for children and young people: A systematic review. Campbell Systematic Reviews. 2019; 15:e1060. https://doi.org/10.1002/cl2.1060


External links[edit]
Kendric C. Babcock (1920). "Education, Professional" . Encyclopedia Americana.
vteAspects of workplacesTopics
Absenteeism
Abusive supervision
Aggression
Anti-pattern
Artificial intelligence
Bullying
Climate
Culture
Computer surveillance
Conflict
Control freak
Counterproductive behaviour
Coworking
Culture of fear
Democracy
Deviance
Discrimination
Diversity
Divide and rule
Drug tests
Effects of overtime
Emotional labor
Emotions
Employee assistance
Employee engagement
Employee experience
Employee monitoring
Employee morale
Employee recognition
Employee silence
Employee surveys
Empowerment
Evaluation
Feminisation
Generations
Goofing off
Gossip
Happiness
Harassment
Health promotion
Health surveillance
Hostile work environment
Humor
Incivility
Inequality
Intervention
Jargon
Kick the cat
Kiss up kick down
Listening
Machiavellianism
Menopause
Micromanagement
Mobbing
Narcissism
Office politics
Overwork
Parkinson's law
Performance appraisal
Personality clash
Phobia
Positive psychology
Privacy
Probation
Profanity
Psychopathy
Quality of working life
Queen bee syndrome
Rat race
Relationships
Revenge
Robotics safety
Role conflict
Sabotage
Spirituality
Strategy
Stress
Toxic workplace
Toxic leader
Training
Turnover
Undermining
Violence
Virtual
Wellness
Work–family conflict
Workload
Workplace harassment
Workwear
See also
Corporation
Employment
Factory
Headquarters
Job
Job sharing
Labour movement
Labor rights
Office
Organization
Remote work
Strike action
Trade union
Whistleblower
 Templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Employment

Authority control databases NationalGermany2United StatesFranceBnF dataJapanCzech RepublicSpain2LatviaIsraelOtherHistorical Dictionary of SwitzerlandNARA2




Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Professional_development&oldid=1280302316"
Categories: Personal developmentVocational educationProfessional ethicsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from August 2013Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2023Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1: unfit URLArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataHarv and Sfn no-target errorsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2015Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated linkPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback via Module:Annotated linkWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference






 This page was last edited on 13 March 2025, at 20:08 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view














Search













Search









Toggle the table of contents







Professional development




























22 languages


Add topic
















